Resolute Mining has announced the latest results from the 2022 exploration drilling at Syama North outlining the potential for a new open pit operation close to the Syama Complex. The exploration drilling program at Syama North, initiated during 2021, recorded significant oxide and sulphide gold mineralisation intersections in and around the originally mined out oxide pits of A21 and Beta/BA-01 located within 4-8 km of the main Syama mining and processing complex. The total Mineral Resources estimate of 20 Mt at 2.14g/t Au for 1.4 million ounces at 31 December 2021 was published as per Table 1: The main target for the 2021 exploration program at Syama North was expanding the oxide resources, following on from the successes of 2020, however a substantial sulphide mineral resource, at greater than 1 Moz, was outlined by the program as seen from Table 1. RELATED:Syama sulphide plant shutdown successfully completedTerry Holohan takes the reigns at Resolute Mining As the sulphide mineralisation remains open at depth and appears to be contiguous along the 2.5 km strike length, this has created the potential for further open pit, and eventually underground, mining for sulphide ores in this area. Based on the 2021 exploration results open pit operations resumed at Syama North in late 2021 extracting additional oxide resources from both Beta and A21 after the previous phase of oxide mining in this area concluded in 2018. The 2022 drilling program was undertaken with the intention of upgrading and expanding these resources to capitalise upon the recent significant process improvements and successful refurbishment of the Sulphide Plant achieved over Q1 2022. Drilling Program 2022 Diamond and RC drilling recommenced in early 2022 at both the A21 and Beta pits. The drilling program targeted the down-dip extensions of the identified zones and was successful with most of the holes intersecting sulphide mineralisation. Results from holes drilled to date have been returned with significant intersections seen in numerous holes confirming the extension of the mineralised zones along the entire strike length of the original A21 pit. The best results received to date are shown below, with a table of the intersections attached as Appendix I. These results represent some of the best gold intersections ever recorded from the Syama North area. With the new-found confidence in sulphide mining and processing over the last twelve months this has re-invigorated the exploration department to explore for new oxide and sulphide resources. A new low-level, high definition heliborne aeromagnetic survey will shortly be conducted to improve on the historical wide-spaced aeromagnetic coverage. This survey is planned to cover the whole 85 km length of the Greenstone Belt held under license to delineate more sulphide resources, which are the long-term future of the mining operation. Terry Holohan, Resolute CEO, said: “I am very pleased with the progress over the last twelve months within both the exploration and operations teams. They have fully grasped the ‘back to basics’ approach we needed to adopt across all disciplines in order to continually improve the operation per se and thereby give us the opportunity to systematically improve the bottom line of the Syama project for many years to come.”