TSX-listed Giyani Metals has announced the completion of reverse circulation (RC) infill drilling programme at the recently discovered southerly extension K.Hill Extension at its K.Hill manganese project in Botswana. A total of 4 561 m have been drilled across 54 holes (including three re-drills) on an approximate 75 x 75 m grid spacing to determine the correlation between the southern mineralised horizons and the northern resource horizons to establish continuity in order to convert the majority of inferred resources in the K.Hill Extension to indicated resources. The drilling programme also extended along strike into a previously untested section to the south of the identified zones and confirmed the presence of further mineralisation and the potential to add tonnage to the existing resource. An additional 19 holes were planned for this section, eleven of which have already been completed for 730m, two are in progress and the remaining six will be drilled in the coming weeks. A further ten diamond drill holes across the K. Hill Extension area will be drilled at pre-selected locations. The diamond drill holes will be drilled as twin holes to certain RC holes and will be used to confirm the results from the RC campaign as well as for geotechnical, geochemical and metallurgical studies. Assaying will shortly commence for the RC drill collars and once the full set of drill holes has been assayed the results will be sent to SRK Consulting for updated resource estimation and, thereafter, the company would anticipate the completion of an updated mineral resource estimate for the K.Hill project. EXCLUSIVE: K.Hill – All the makings of a success story Interest from state and industry Robin Birchall, CEO commented, “The K.Hill orebody continues to deliver excellent results and we are very pleased not only to complete the infill portion of our RC drill programme within budget but to confirm that the mineralisation continues to the south. In a little over a year, our exploration successes have upgraded a 1.7Mt inferred resource for the K.Hill Project into 2.1Mt of Indicated and 3.1Mt of inferred resources and we are expectant that the results of this infill program will increase the indicated resource further. Giyani’s core objective is to be a responsible low carbon and sustainable producer of high purity manganese sulphate monohydrate and play a key role in the future of the electric vehicle market and so we were delighted to have recently hosted a major European battery manufacturer on a site visit to our K.Hill project and tour of local infrastructure. “A highlight of the tour was the visit of Minister Kwape, who stressed the importance of the project to the local region and his support for Giyani, which followed a very positive meeting with His Excellency President Masisi in Cape Town. Greater exposure to critical minerals and more local, high-value beneficiation are key themes of the president’s mining policy and so Giyani is setting an example of how Botswana can achieve both.”