As a pioneer of proximity detection systems (PDS) implementation, Booyco Electronics has played a pivotal role in the quest for Zero Harm in the mining sector. Now, as the technology continues to evolve, CEO ANTON LOURENS is confident that PDS will also enhance safety in the mines of the future. GERARD PETER reports. PDS was first introduced in 2004, and when Lourens established Booyco Electronics in 2006, it was just one of three companies that offered this technology in South Africa. “At the time, the technology was focused on underground operations. Our very first system was a basic one-way communication system that warned vehicle operators about pedestrians; we didn’t even consider a system that would be able to warn people of a vehicle’s location,” he explains. Lourens explains that it in the early days, it was a challenge to convince mining companies to implement PDS solutions as the technology was relatively unknown. However, fast track to today and mining operators are increasingly installing PDS on mining equipment on surface and in underground mines to prevent collisions and pedestrian accidents. “The technology has evolved considerably and today we have systems that actually warn an operator where a person is relative to a vehicle as well as tell pedestrians in different zones where they are relative to vehicles.” So, what has led to an increase in PDS implementation? Lourens attributes this to two key factors. The first is the rapid development of technology compared to the past. “If you just look at the deployment of technology globally in terms of computing, artificial intelligence etc, you will see that it is evolving at a much faster rate than it was 10 to 15 years ago, and this is a contributing factor to keeping PDS at the level where it is today.” It is with this in mind that Booyco Electronics looks at global technological advancements on a quarterly basis, from both a hardware and a software perspective. This is in keeping with the company’s design philosophy to provide a solid hardware platform on which the functionality and performance of the software is built. The company has also put in place a system architecture that can easily be expanded and adapted to new technological developments. In addition, the technology is continuously being improved through greater collaboration between PDS manufactures and vehicle OEMS. Furthermore, Lourens states that the COVID-19 pandemic has spurred on the need for more technologically advanced solutions in mining operations. “The pandemic really identified the need for digitalisation of the industry as we got to see how technology can be beneficial to a business; and this has created further awareness about the benefits of implementing PDS,” he adds. While PDS has proven that it can enhance safety on mines, there is no one-size-fits-all when it comes to implementing the technology. And this is where Booyco Electronics’ vast experience and expertise comes in. Lourens explains that several factors need to be considered before deciding on a PDS solution. This includes the type of operation, type of equipment and operating procedures. “We aim to provide the best possible solution for a specific operation. Therefore, we engage with our customers, review their traffic management procedures and do a traffic flow analysis. Only then do we look to see how PDS can benefit their operations,” adds Lourens. Ultimately, while the technology exists to help make mining operations safer, it is down to human behaviour to ensure that it is used effectively. It is for this reason that Booyco Electronics takes an integrated approach where it engages with all relevant parties in a mining operation to get them to understand the value of a PDS solution. In line with this, the company has the largest technical support team in the country. Also, its technicians conduct onsite inspections. In addition, the company provides ongoing training for PDS users. Saving lives is top of mind, not legislation According to Lourens, the second determining factor for the increase in PDS implementation is a growing acceptance from all industry players that there is a need for this vital safety technology. “This is no longer about just adhering to legislation; rather today we are seeing a global drive to save lives on mines. As such, we are seeing that companies are moving towards adopting and evolving technologies that will help in this regard on a much bigger scale than it was four years ago. “In the past, PDS was often a grudge purchase but now there’s an industry drive, led by the mining houses and Minerals Council, to achieve Zero Harm and hence the increased interest in PDS,” Lourens states. Looking to the future, there is no ceiling limit for ongoing PDS development. So, where will the technology be in 10 years’ time? Lourens believes that PDS can easily be adapted to autonomous mining operations. “The introduction of an ISO standard interface means that technology can now interface with equipment in a defined manner. As such, I honestly believe that within the next decade, even probably a lot sooner, PDS technology will be implemented in autonomous underground mining operations,” he concludes.