Digitalisation and automation are driving forces that are making mining companies more energy efficient. However, key to ensuring that technology can in fact be beneficial to mining operations is reliable connectivity. And this is where Vodacom is making great inroads as it propels mining into what it calls the ‘next normal’. GERARD PETER finds out from THANDO SIBINDI, managing executive of Vodacom’s MPUI (mining, production, utilities and industrial) division just how the company is achieving this. Sibindi starts by explaining that Vodacom’s business strategy is aligned to the next normal. “This could be the Fourth Industrial Revolution or another technological advancement. We make sure that as a company transitioning from a telco to a technology communications company, we strive to offer our customers the connection for a better future.” The mining sector plays an important role in the company’s overall business strategy. To that end, Vodacom Business has a dedicated mining team at Vodacom’s headquarters in Midrand as well as representatives in provinces where there is a strong mining presence such as Mpumalanga and the Northern Cape. Vodacom has based its mining offering on a key mission statement: If you can’t measure it, you can’t manage it. “Whether it is to save on energy costs, increase productivity or to save the environment, we provide real time analytical tools that allow mining companies to monitor their progress from any location. We are convinced that our product offering will be able to drive future efficiencies and be the main cog in shaping the mine of the future,” adds Sibindi. Sibindi envisages the mine of the future to be driven by high speed connectivity and low latency, meaning that data must be available on the go and on a global scale. Included in Vodacom’s array of products is its Mobile Private Network (MPN). This is a dedicated business network that allows businesses to interconnect people and equipment using 4G or 5G technology. An MPN is well suited for remote areas where many mining operations are situated and where connectivity is scarce. As such, mines depend on other means of communication that are often slower and less efficient. “When we talk to our mining customers in Africa, the emphasis is on creating a digital ecosystem around the operation that includes both infrastructure and the workforce. “Through an MPN, we are to provide solutions that range from energy management and worker safety to logistics optimisation, asset tracking and predictive maintenance, all of which are designed to drive improved productivity and profitability,” explains Sibindi. To date, Vodacom has had considerable success with its MPN offering globally. Already this network is being trialled at a major zinc mine in the Northern Cape and a large platinumoperation in Limpopo. It all starts with connectivity Sibindi adds that through MPN, the company is able to offer a state-of-the-art security and storage solution that ensures that information received from all key points on a mine is stored in a cloud and disseminated in real time all over the world. With the use of autonomous vehicles and equipment on the increase, it is paramount that a mine has high speed connectivity and low latency. Sibindi uses the example of an autonomous truck to emphasise this point. “Can you imagine a dump truck driving in and out of a mine without a driver and its movements are all dependent on the signal that’s coming from the tower that provides the connection signal? If for some unknown reason that connectivity is lost, the truck could drive into people or even fall over the edge. That is why it is imperative that there is reliable, high speed connectivity to ensure that such incidents are avoided.” He further points out that Vodacom offers solutions for most mining applications. At the same time however, the company does not take a one-size-fits-all approach. Rather, Sibindi and his team engage with mining companies to ensure that they can tailor-make a solution that meets operational demands for a particular mine. “The baseline for all of this is connectivity and once we have established the connectivity requirements, we can then offer services such as cloud storage and security. With these solutions in place, we can, for example, utilise the information coming from our Internet of Things to send real time information to a central repository that can be seen by all key-decision makers, thereby allowing effective management of a mining operation.” Connecting a mine, empowering a community Furthermore, through its subsidiary IoT.nxt, Vodacom is able to offer gadgets that can communicate with any piece of equipment and decipher any information from it. One such application is the use of sensors on mining trucks. This ensures that a truck takes the shortest route to get to its intended destination and also helps to reduce idling time. In doing so, this ensures lower fuel consumption, thereby saving on fuel costs and reducing carbon emissions. IoT.nxt is also playing a pivotal role in ensuring Zero Harm. “We have wearable smart devices that are designed to monitor oxygen and toxicity levels within the mining environment, making sure that a worker completes his shift with zero incidences,” adds Sibindi. While Vodacom partners with mining companies to deliver solutions that drive energy efficiency and safety, such partnerships have also created opportunities for miningcommunities. For the most part, internet connectivity is virtually non-existent in many mining communities, largely due to locations where mobile networks have not put the required infrastructure in place. However, the advent of MPN is set to change this. “While we are able to offer MPN to a mining company, the spin off from this is that surrounding communities can also benefit from high-speed connectivity. This is will complement the service that we offer to the mines on the proviso that the network that we install also gives communities access to the internet at a significantly lower cost. “It is evident that the mine of the future is going to require high levels of sustainability. To achieve these high levels, any mining company needs to address community development and shareholder needs as well as operate in a sustainable way. Vodacom is firmly committed to helping mining companies achieve this,” Sibindi concludes.