Notwithstanding the challenges of the COVID-19 pandemic, Vibramech is delighted to announce that it has achieved record sales in its 45th milestone year and wishes to pay tribute to all of its clients for this affirmation of their trust in Vibramech’s equipment. Vibramech supplies its equipment to mining and mineral processing industries throughout Africa, Eurasia, Australasia, North and South America. Its equipment is operating in processing plants, ocean vessels and mining operations worldwide. The company has extensive experience in gold, diamond, coal, iron ore, manganese, platinum, chrome, nickel, uranium, copper, lithium, mineral sands, and aggregate operations. As an OEM, Vibramech consistently produces a proven and comprehensive range of vibrating equipment, including, but not limited to: multislope (or banana) screens, horizontal and inclined screens, dewatering screens, primary & secondary sizing screens, crusher product screens, degrit screens, floats, and sinks screens, classifying screens, XRT & X-ray prep screens and feeders, DMS feeders, grizzly feeders, pan feeders, tubular feeders, and grease tables. Almost every piece of equipment is tailor-made to suit a client’s specific requirements, from both a plant layout viewpoint and process considerations. A new contract worth celebrating Vibramech is particularly honoured to supply the world’s third largest tungsten resource, located in Devon, England, which has been categorised as a world-class deposit due to its scale within a global context. RELATED:Vibramech: Bringing cutting edge technology to minerals processingVibramech: Maintaining a firm footprint in West Africa The equipment supplied to this project includes: eleven pan feeders of various sizes, seven dewatering screens, two primary DMS float screens in the form of geared exciter driven banana screens with sizes of 3.6 m x 7.3 m. Vibramech also supplied a secondary crusher scalping screen, ore sorter sizing screen, tertiary crusher sizing screen and a product screen, each of which comprises a four-vibrator-motor-driven screen. Vibrator motors Vibramech pioneered the use of four vibrator motors to drive vibrating screens and without question, has the largest worldwide footprint of four-vibrator-motor-driven (FVMD) screens globally. Vibramech have successfully installed four-vibrator-motor-driven screens around the globe in countries such as UK, Australia, Russia, Brazil, Chile, Canada, Botswana, Zimbabwe, Lesotho, Angola, Ghana, Mali, and Israel. URAS vibrator motors are part of Vibramech’s key product offering, since 1981 and Vibramech is the exclusive URAS vibrator motor distributor for Africa and the Middle East. In its 45th year, Vibramech also celebrates the successful rollout of their Vibrasure online and remote monitoring system, which occurred during the first quarter of 2021. Vibrasure enables all aspects of Vibramech vibrating equipment to be monitored 24/7, providing added insurance for machine performance. Vibramech and/or their clients can, as required, receive real-time notifications on vibration patterns and bearing temperatures via email, mobile phone messaging or PLC. This will eliminate the occurrence of unplanned downtime due to normally unnoticed detrimental operational issues. This will add to the renowned and reliable Vibramech equipment, with clients sleeping sound knowing that Vibramech are maintaining a constant watch on machine performance, resulting in even improved machine longevity. Vibramech’s clients are also supplied with spare parts and Vibramech’s experienced engineers regularly carry out site visits (in southern Africa) to assess the installed equipment and operations, and to provide advice on optimal operational conditions for its equipment. Please visit Vibramech’s website at  for an overview on how Vibramech could assist with your current and future mineral processing requirements.