Cennergi a wholly owned subsidiary of Exxaro has welcomed the registration of its 80MW Lephalale Solar Project (“LSP”) by the National Energy Regulator of South Africa (NERSA) and the Regulator Executive Committee earlier this week. LSP is the first phase of the decarbonisation of Exxaro’s flagship Grootegeluk mine at Lephalale in Limpopo province.The project has been fast-tracked to enable a reduction ofup to a third of the mine’s Scope 2 emissions and significant electricity cost savings The Managing Director of Energy at Exxaro & Cennergi, Roland Tatnall, expressed the company’s excitement at this milestone and its role in accelerating Exxaro’s target ofcarbon neutrality by 2050. “The team worked incredibly hard to ensure LSP was one of the first large renewable energy projects to receive registration through the streamlined NERSA process in arecord time of 47 days. Following the announcement of our renewable energy strategy to the market in September 2021, we have developed a significant pipeline of multi-technology (wind, solar and storage) solutions that will provide decarbonisation, energy security and cost reduction benefits to Exxaro and other private customers.And in line with the memorandum of understanding we executed with Eskom last year, we are advancing a comprehensive renewable energy solution for Exxaro’s presence in Mpumalanga which we hope will provide a blueprint for the Just Energy Transition in the province.” said Tatnall. The @NERSA_ZA has approved of our 80MW solar project registration at our Grootegeluk mine. The approval of our photovoltaic project is an integral part of our decarbonisation strategy at our flagship mine which is based in Lephalale, Limpopo. Article: https://t.co/hlJHvpKgj7 pic.twitter.com/n8COBi6y5Z Cennergi believes that LSP is one of the largest project financed behind-the-meter renewable energy projects in South Africa at such an advanced stage. A long-termpower purchase agreement will govern the sale of electricity between Cennergi and the Grootegeluk Complex. The project  is the first phase of a multi-technology solution designed specifically for the mine’s demand profile. Subsequent phases including storage and wheeled wind are at an advanced stage of development. According to Tatnall, increasing the ceiling for the registration of private distributed power projects from 1MW to 100MW last year and NERSA’s success in registeringover 400MW of these projects in a matter of weeks demonstrates the government’s commitment to enabling the private power sector outside the boundaries of REIPPPP.