As mines work towards reducing their electricity costs and carbon footprint, they are focusing increased attention on energy efficiency strategies. In this first of three articles on energy in mines, SRK Consulting considers where the main savings are to be made without impacting productivity. A key point to make upfront is that any initiative to enhance energy efficiency needs to be assessed in terms of its possible impact on revenue. Anything that reduces revenue is almost certainly not worth the cost saving it promises, and for this reason is unlikely to be implemented. This is according to Andrew van Zyl, director and principal consultant at SRK Consulting. “In addition, any technology introduced to reduce energy consumption must go hand in hand with effective management,” says Van Zyl. “This means first establishing certainty that existing procedures or equipment cannot be further optimised, and then being able to implement improvements practically.” Moving less He points out that much of the energy used in mining is consumed in the movement of material, so any innovation that reduces the weight of equipment, the distance material must be moved or the number of times that material must be moved, will invariably help reduce energy consumption. This can sometimes be achieved with technology. Noddy McGeorge, principal mining engineer at SRK, highlights the considerable potential to save energy by moving less waste material. “This is especially the case in underground gold mines, where large amounts of waste are raised to surface. Managing this better would allow us to leave more of it underground,” he explains. Aiming to reduce the energy of moving material in the underground environment, SRK principal mining engineer Joseph Mainama says mines have explored options such as designing lighter skips. According to Ali Rudaki, SRK principal mining engineer, saving energy without affecting productivity needs both energy-saving technology and better mining management systems. “While using new technology to become more energy efficient requires investment on replacement of the mining equipment, this investment might be returned over a period – because it facilitates lower operating costs. “The rate of capital return will depend on the costs of energy consumed, as well as the scale of the project and remaining life of mine,” he states. He emphasises that management systems can make open cast mines more energy efficient by utilising effective control over the most energy-intensive aspects of mining, such as hauling. Long haul In open pits, for instance, electricity or diesel consumed by drills, shovels and haul trucks remains the most significant portion of energy consumption. Jaco van Graan, principal mining engineer at SRK, explains that haul trucks are the main contributor to diesel usage, while drills and shovels are often electrically powered. “In South Africa, the carbon impact of using either electricity or diesel in these applications is similar, as most of our electricity is generated by coal fired power stations. In terms of saving energy, conveyors may present a more energy-efficient option than haul trucks, as they have much lower operating costs. However, this can be capital-intensive and offers less operational flexibility.” He explains that where trucks can be operated with trolley-assist for portions of the haul route, their efficiencies can improve – mainly due to higher speeds, especially uphill. It does require a high level of road maintenance, however, if those higher efficiencies are to be achieved. Automating haul trucks also drives efficiencies. There is also a range of technologies available to increase productivity and reduce operating costs, which also helps improve energy efficiency. These include analytics to reduce fuel and tyre consumption, real-time equipment health monitoring, laser-beam 3D mapping and obstacle detection. Van Zyl notes that the future holds potential for hydrogen powerplants for haul trucks, particularly if the hydrogen can be economically generated using renewable energy sources. “Improvements in battery technology and charging times are also likely to make the use of battery-powered mining equipment underground more common.” Cooling down In underground mines, ventilation is a significant consumer of energy, according to SRK principal mechanical engineer Chris Smythe. A key function traditionally has been not only to introduce fresh air but to dilute and disperse high concentrations of diesel particulate matter (DPM) in the air produced by vehicles powered by diesel engines. “Recently, there has been an increased use of battery-powered underground mobile equipment, as battery technology and performance has improved significantly,” states Smythe. “Apart from offering a more efficient transfer of energy to work than diesel engines, the use of battery-driven vehicles removes diesel emissions, and the vehicles generate less heat. This allows for a reduction in energy for ventilation purposes.” Mainama adds that reduced energy requirements could significantly reduce the infrastructure and associated capital expenditure for the ventilation system. Remote working technologies could also reduce the amount of energy spent keeping underground areas cool, states Van Zyl, as these areas could be run without the physical presence of an operator – thus requiring less ventilation. Evolving technology Ongoing evolution of technology towards energy efficiency is being embraced by the mining sector, states SRK electrical design engineer Kenny Mahuma. These innovations include high efficiency motors, variable speed drives – which are highly effective energy savers on conveyors, for example – and heat pumps for hot water heating in change-houses. McGeorge agrees that any energy[1]saving ideas which compromise production are unlikely to gain traction. He highlights mines need a step-change in the way energy is used, so that it delivered a much more significant result. “This is only available to new projects, which can be designed from scratch. It requires a rethink of fundamental processes like ore-hoisting or clearance of material – and can lead to much greater energy savings. “A key factor to be managed is the balancing of energy efficiency with energy security. Without energy security, systems will be over-designed and will render energy efficiency efforts ineffective,” he concludes. This article is the first in a three-part series.