Mining is not just about making a profit; it is also about sustainability. And this is what investors and consumers alike are increasingly focused on. This is the view of HETHEN HIRA, head of investor relations at Pan African Resources (PAR). The company has committed itself to implementing renewable energy solutions and other sustainable initiatives at its operations in South Africa. GERARD PETER finds out more. The first such commitment is the installation of a solar photovoltaic (PV) plant at its Elikhulu tailings retreatment operation at its Evander gold mine in Mpumalanga. PAR has contracted juwi South Africa to construct the 10 MW plant. The company plans to expand this output to 22 MW in 2023, based on the successful commissioning of the initial plant. The plant cost approximately R140 million to construct and complete and the company envisages payback in about five years. RELATED:Pan African Resources commissions 10 MW solar photovoltaic plantPan African explores extensions of ore bodies at Barberton MinesPan African Resources initiates exploration programme Sudan PAR decided on a solar option after considering the topography and the weather patterns in the area. The plant is located on land that the company owns and has rehabilitated, which streamlined the environmental approval process. As such, Hira explains that there was no need to acquire any additional nearby land that is currently being used for farming and housing nearby communities. It has taken just over a year to construct the plant, which temporarily employed about 200 people from the local communities and used the services of 10 local contracting companies. “The companies are all fully BEE compliant and were responsible for flattening the land and putting in the ground infrastructure. And as we add the additional 12 MW, we will use the same local contractors, ensuring that they remain employed for a further period as required,” states Hira. Spanning 20 ha, the current 10 MW plant will provide for 30% of Elikhulu’s electricity requirements. “Ensuring a stable power supply allows us to continue operating during load shedding. Also, as operating costs go up, in the longer term, having a fixed cost, clean energy power supply will help us maintain our low production cost of gold per ounce and sustain our high profit margins,” Hira adds. Mapping the journey to carbon net-zero The solar plant will also reduce carbon emissions at the tailings facility by 26 000 tpa in the first year of operation; naturally this number will increase as more output becomes available. Hira says PAR is fully committed to achieving carbon neutrality at all its operations. To that end, last year it released its first annual ESG report. “Our annual report is fully aligned with the UN SDG goals that are relevant to our operations and outlines the work we are doing in this regard. “As a mid-tier gold mining company producing 200 000 ozpa, we don’t have a large carbon footprint as we don’t utilise large yellow machines on surface, don’t consume a lot of diesel, and don’t have open pit operations. However, we are looking at expanding our operations, as can be seen by our acquisition of Blyvoor and Mintails tailings facilities. As such, we intend to incorporate renewable energy in all the plants that we construct going forward, where feasible.” Hira expects the company to significantly reduce its carbon footprint over the next two years. In addition to the 22 MW solar plant – when fully operational – at Evander, it is also looking at installing an 8 MW plant at its Barberton operations soon, where feasibility studies for the plant and its location have also been completed. It is also considering other renewable options. These include wind power from adjacent sites which could also enable the company to do wheeling of electricity. Wheeling is when electricity is produced in one area and connected to a grid but sold to an end user in a further remote area of the grid. As stated earlier, PAR is keen to expand its operations and is looking to do so through organic growth as the company has significant mineral reserves and resources within its current mining rights areas, which are valid to 2038 at Evander and 2052 at Barberton. Having a reduced carbon footprint and improved ESG credentials bodes well for the company as it seeks funding and investment from global entities increasingly looking at a mining company’s ESG ratings. Furthermore, having a more cost-effective energy source makes good economic sense for the company’s future endeavours. “Given the high gold price, we have announced that we are expanding our underground operations. Underground mining is more electricity intensive and accounts for up to 25% of operational costs. Using renewable energy reduces this cost and improves operating margins, making it more viable to expand underground,” Hira concludes. *At the time of writing, the plant was due to become operational in May.