Oriole Resources the AIM-quoted exploration company focused on West Africa, has confirmed the presence of mineralised sub-horizontal quartz veins connecting the already-defined sub-vertical shear veins on its 90%-owned Bibemi gold project in Cameroon. The first two holes of the ongoing Phase 4 diamond drilling programme have confirmed the existence of mineralised sub-horizontal quartz veins between the previously definedsub-vertical shear veins. Confirmation of these sub-horizontal veins could be important for building a volume of mineralised material at Bakassi Zone 1, just one of four prospects at the Project. “This extensional event appears to have created opportunities for the injection of mineralising fluids, which may in turn (subject to positive assay results) lead to a significant volumetric increase in the known mineralisation in Zone 1. It’s exactly these types of structural interplays that create the potential for mineable grades and widths in orogenic systems and we are keen to see how the analysis stacks up against the positive results received to date at Bibemi. With a high success rate to date of intersecting gold mineralisation on the licence, we are confident the systems at Bibemi have the capacity to host an orogenic gold deposit.” commented Oriole Resources CEO, Tim Livese. (2/3) Cross-sections of the successful intersection of sub-horizontal extensional veins at Bakassi Zone 1 can be seen below and show the potential for gold mineralisation outside of the currently-defined, steeply-dipping envelopes. #ORR #gold #exploration pic.twitter.com/eA6jIEmGo9 Between Q1-2021 and Q1-2022, the Company completed three phases of diamond drilling for a total of 6,154.10 metres in 49 holes at the Project, which confirmed shear-hosted gold mineralisation at all four prospects. The majority of the drilling has been focused on a circa 1 km long section at the southern end of the Bakassi Zone 1 and has delivered best results to date of 6.50m grading 3.92 grammes per tonne (‘g/t’) gold (‘Au’), including 1.00m grading 16.79 g/t Au (BBDD034), 5.20m grading 1.97 g/t Au and 9.20m grading 1.31 g/t Au. Related: Oriole confirms licences have great potential to be a new gold district As previously reported, a series of technical studies, including specific gravity measurements and metallurgical test work, are underway to support a two-year extension of the Bibemi licence beyond its current term which expires on 5 October 2022 and a technical report will be submitted to the Ministry of Mines in Q3 this year to support thisprocess (announcement dated 30 May 2022). Ahead of this submission, the Company recently hosted a delegation from the Ministry of Mines, where the Minister of Mines, Industry and Technological Development expressed his satisfaction in the work and progress at the Project to date. During the visit, Oriole also presented its progress to the local community, who remain supportive of the company’s operations. 