Lotus Resources has announced the inaugural Mineral Resource estimate (MRE) for the Livingstonia Uranium deposit of 6.9Mt at 320 ppm U₃O₈. This increases the total global MRE for the Company in Malawi to 51.1Mlbs U₃O₈. The increased resource is a result of recent exploration success at the Livingstonia Project that confirmed results from historical drilling as well as extending the resource footprint through some preliminary step-out drilling Livingstonia is not included in the current Definitive Feasibility Study, however, has the potential to become a satellite operation in the future, once the Kayelekera resource has been depleted Lotus says that the Definitive Feasibility Study (DFS) remains on track for mid-2022. Inaugural Mineral Resource estimate (MRE) for the Livingstonia #Uranium deposit of 6.9Mt at 320 ppm U3O8. This increases the total global MRE for the $LOT in Malawi to 51.1Mlbs U3O8: https://t.co/Ga0hnGBYJPThe Definitive Feasibility Study remains on track for mid-2022. pic.twitter.com/TLn8k5B15Q “The acquisition of the Livingstonia prospect last year consolidated the Company’s ownership of our southern project area, a known uranium mineralised district that has had very limited exploration work completed over the years. Following the small-scale drill program last year, it is pleasing to now produce a JORC (2012) compliant Mineral Resource estimate, which is broadly in line with our expectations. Read more about Lotus : Government support to recommence production at Lotus’ Kayelekera “As we have previously commented, Livingstonia is not part of the current production strategy at the Kayelekera project nor our DFS work, however it has the potential to become a satellite operation in the future, once the Kayelekera resource has been depleted. The results show that there are additional feed materials available for the Kayelekera processing plant and that the life- of-mine is not limited by what currently exists on the mining tenement.” Keith Bowes, Managing Director of Lotus, commented.