Gemfields has recently held its prominent ruby auction in Thailand, Bangkok.The auction delivered an all-time high auction revenues for any Gemfields auction and contained a selection of grades that are typically offered at Montepuez Ruby Mining Limitada’s (“MRM”) auctions of mixed quality rubies. Following the viewings, the auctions took place via an online auction platform specificallyadapted for Gemfields and which permitted customers from multiple jurisdictions to participate in a sealed-bid process. The auction saw 49 companies placing bids and generating record revenues of USD 95.6 million with an overall average value of USD 246.69 per carat. The auction saw 94.1% of the number of lots, and 63.5% of the offered carats, being sold. #Gemfields is delighted to announce that an exceptional pair of Mozambican rubies will be offered for sale at its #rubyauction in June 2022. Weighing in at 61.50 carats in the rough, 32.50 and 29 carats respectively, these are extraordinary gemstones. ​https://t.co/GygjSNnqeJ pic.twitter.com/e6CogwM2Im “Our first auction of rubies in 2022 has delivered truly glittering results, setting a new revenue record for any Gemfields auction at USD 95.6 million. When combined with Kagem’s two emerald auctions so far this year, Gemfields auction revenue in the first half of 2022 stands at USD 181 million versus our prior first half record of USD 93 million, set in 2018. Read more about rubies: Gemfields reports record revenue generated at Indian auction “While we would caution that second-half revenues are unlikely to match theremarkable first half, today’s auction results again underscore the extent of the step-change being experienced in the market. We thank and congratulate our hard-working teams, our partners, our host governments and of course our clients”. Adrian Banks, Gemfields’ Managing Director of Product & sales, commented. The rough rubies were all extracted from the mining license held and operated by MRM (which is 75% owned by Gemfields and 25% by Mozambican partner Mwiriti Limitada). The proceeds of this auction will be fully repatriated to MRM in Mozambique, with all royalties due to the Government of the Republic of Mozambique being paid on the full sales prices achieved at the auction.