Approximately nine years ago, specialised technology, process and project house Consulmet took the decision to open a DRC-owned office in Lubumbashi, to aggressively pursue the multiple current and future opportunities for its offerings. The insightful decision to open the Consulmet DRC office has started returning serious rewards, having recently won and completed, in time and on budget, a significant copper plant revitalisation and upgrading contract. The original plant was designed, supplied, erected, and commissioned by Consulmet, which in totality serves the minerals and metals processing industries through the design, fabrication, supply, construction and operations and maintenance of production-ready processing and beneficiation plants. RELATED:Mining Elites in Africa 2022 Showcase: Consulmet Numerous other new plant and plant refurbishment/revitalisation projects are being pursued by the Consulmet DRC team. The companies are also actively chasing full/partial plant operations and maintenance (O&M) contracts – a unique skill and offering by a unique company. Why use Consulmet? At a time where practical skills and specialised mining and process knowledge is becoming a scarce commodity, Consulmet still retains a big ‘gene pool’ of mining and processing specialists across the spectrum of requirements to successfully design and implement processing plants. Its O&M team is world class. Consulmet has designed and constructed +/-10 processing plants per year, for the past 15 years and has in general done so with the same key personnel Consulmet’s key performance driver is time, and the focus is to complete anything and everything, according to specifications and quality control standards, in the shortest possible timeframe. This again, is facilitated through a very experienced workforce, but also by embracing a very flat management structure, whereby decisions are taken quickly, and these decisions are converted into actions even faster. It is the status quo to see Consulmet directors and HODs directly involved, on the ground, during the execution of projects. High level, specialised, complicated and sometimes sensitive as these technologies are, the company has taken its projects and these technologies successfully into some of the harshest conditions and locations on the planet. The teams are accustomed to adapting to and thriving in and under any conditions and are happy to go that extra personalised mile. We take pride in our projects and get emotionally involved with them – failure is simply non-existent and not an option.