Privately owned explorer Central Copper Resources (CCR) is the DRC’s next major up and coming copper producer. With an existing deposit in country (the flagship Mbamba Kilenda project containing 400 000 t of contained copper already), and two advanced exploration projects located in the DRC and Zambia respectively, this company is hot property – which will likely be demonstrated when it lists on the ASX early in Q3 this year, CEO LUKE KNIGHT tells LAURA CORNISH. The CCR story has been an interesting one right from the start. It drew the interest of 10-year-old AMED Funds – a private equity group that’s geographically domiciled for investment and mineral and exploration projects in Africa. “In its position as an investment house, the need for a portfolio containing copper was considered essential and in my historical position as project evaluator and monitor for the business, a decision was taken to secure copper projects that would be quick to get into production, low cost to build and preferably high grade,” Knight starts. “And obviously, if you’re looking for copper, you need to look in elephant country and you don’t get better than Zambia and the DRC,” he continues. On the back of a partnership with Ross McGowan, one of the preeminent geologists for copper deposits in Central Africa, CCR secured what it believes to be three highly prospective projects – Mbamba Kilenda and Titan in the DRC and Lunga in Zambia – all initially invested in independently by AMED Funds – over a process of about 10 years. CCR was then established to consolidate those best targets. Now in his position as CEO of CCR, Knight is ready to move the company up the value curve, quickly, and this requires a stock exchange listing and exposure to capital markets to raise the required capital for rapidly advancing the projects. The decision to list primarily on London’s AIM in 2021 was withdrawn after it became apparent that the Titan project needed to be fully consolidated from AMED Funds into CCR. This exercise was completed in December last year. A renewed marketing exercise thereafter further revealed that a front door listing on the ASX would draw greater interest on the back of an asset with confirmed quantities of copper and significant exploration upside beyond that. “The Australian market traditionally brings investment on the back of positive news announcements and are less focused on domicile. This market will also respond well to the quality/grade of our assets, which far exceeds the typical 0.75% range,” Knight reveals. As such, the company is positioning itself to deliver certain geophysical results closer to its targeted listing date and will quickly follow that through with additional drilling work and results. Typically, a front door listing on the ASX takes around six or seven months, but Knight is expecting to achieve this in about four months – equating to July or August of this year. “A lot of leg work was undertaken and completed for AIM which with some minor rework will be ready for the ASX stock exchange,” Knight confirms. A cornerstone investor for the IPO is also imminent – a private equity firm, very focused on ESG with ‘very good’ African connections as well.” Advancing projects in the interim Mbamba Kilenda The Mbamba Kilenda property is in the central province of the DRC, approximately 70 km south of the capital city of Kinshasa and comprises 13 contiguous exploration permits. The existing drilled resource is located on permit 1297 and covers a 54 km² area located on the eastern end of the overall 85 km strike length and contains a JORC Code compliant mineral resource estimate of 11.8 Mt at 3.13% copper. One of the most exciting work programmes currently underway at the project is an IP (induced polarisation) survey, which follows drilling work already completed across 4 km of strike length and a consequent confirmation of 400 000 t of contained copper (sitting 100–300 m below surface) – 180 000 t of that resource is in an ultra-high-grade core more than 18% copper, Knight highlights. The plan is to bring additional resources into the existing 400 000 t resource, given historical drilling was halted in mineralisation and the resource is open to both the east and the west for further mineralised extension and addition of further copper inventory. “The area has never really had modern exploration techniques undertaken after first being discovered in the ‘50s by the Belgians. Our intention is to complete the IP before listing which will enable us to generate drill targets across a much wider area which should ultimately double or even triple our resource. With the use of core scanning XRF technology, we will have a clear representation of the ore body as well.” Having completed a scoping study that outlined profitable metrics on the existing resource, CCR has moved the project into a Phase 1 definitive feasibility study (DFS) – with preliminary mining, crushing, and screening on surface. The brecciated ore body will be mined in full and everything above 0.5% extracted. Australia’s Lycopodium has been awarded the DFS contract, which is expected to be completed in December of this year. “We will move into 2023 with a solid understanding of the size of our ore body. Regardless, we are targeting 1.4 Mt (circa. 30 000 t of copper) in the first three years and 1 Mtpa from the fourth year to the thirteenth year (still at 30 000 tpa of copper).” Titan CRR holds a 100% interest in Titan, which holds a 78% of DRC incorporated Titan Minerals, the holder of the Kayeye permit, a 231 km2 tenement and exploration permit which is located 50 km southwest of Kolwezi in the DRC. More excitingly, it was once held by Robert Friedland’s Ivanhoe Mines as an adjacent tenement to the Kamoa Kakula ore body and is in fact today surrounded by ground that still belongs to Ivanhoe Mines. To date drill holes (2020) have confirmed geological continuity with Kamoa Kakula, acknowledged as one of the world’s largest high-grade copper mines. More recently, CCR has confirmed lead and zinc within the licence area and will next conduct gravity and radio metrics to highlight anomalism in shallower parts of the ore body. This work will commence after the listing is completed. Lunga The Lunga property is in the north-west province of Zambia, approximately 230 km north-west of Lusaka and comprises one large-scale exploration licence covering 292 km². CCR acquired the project in September 2020 through the acquisition of Armada Minerals. “Lunga will be a smaller oxide deposit close to surface. After a soil geochemistry programme undertaken in 2021, we have three strong anomalies on the property which requires drilling to further validate the existence of an economic ore body, which, if successful will be followed by a feasibility study,” Knight confirms. Knight describes himself as a hands-on CEO, who will be based in Australia, but will spend half of his time on site and at the company’s Cape Town-based office in South Africa. “Importantly, we have employed a very competent country manager with 20 years of experience in Francophone African countries,” Knight notes. He is based in Kinshasa, which offers proximity to both DRC projects. “Our story is one quite different from most exploration and early-stage development companies. We are underpinned by an existing resource of 400 000 t of contained copper with substantial exploration upside across all three projects – and this will appeal to the Australian investors, and the North American investors. We are primed for a solid listing and will be well positioned to actively drill across all three projects and further advance Mbamba Kilenda towards full-scale financing and development with speed,” Knight concludes.