With vast solar and wind potential, extensive deposits of platinum, and an amenable regulatory environment, Africa is well positioned to become a green hydrogen superpower. “Green hydrogen can be transformed into ammonia and synthetic fuels, or it can be stored and later utilised through hydrogen fuel cells – offering a route to decarbonize heavy industry, haulage, and shipping,” says Marcus Courage is Africa Practice’s CEO With its abundant, world-class renewable energy resources and increasing demand for green hydrogen worldwide, Namibia is quickly emerging as an early entrant in this new market and has ambitions of becoming the leading exporter of Green Hydrogen in Africa, according to the African Hydrogen Partnership (AHP), a body responsible for establishing hydrogen economies and societies in Africa. “A preliminary analysis by the World Bank of the green hydrogen market and levelized cost of hydrogen (LCOH) shows that Namibia could produce highly competitive green ammonia. Namibia’s world-class solar and wind resources give it a long-term competitive advantage in producing green hydrogen and green ammonia.” says the AHP. Related: Renewable energy prospects-Could Africa be the world’s model for Green Hydrogen? In South Africa, three catalytic green hydrogen hubs have been identified for the anticipated Hydrogen Valley. These hubs have been identified based on locations with the potential for a high concentration of future hydrogen demand, the possibility to produce hydrogen (e.g., access to sun/wind, water infrastructure), and contributions to the just transition—an economic development plan that brings positive social impact, particularly to more fragile groups and communities. These hubs – in Johannesburg, Durban/Richards Bay, and Mogalakwena/Limpopo – will host pilot projects and contribute to the launch of the hydrogen economy in the Hydrogen Valley But just how much is Africa doing compared to global counterparts? US fuel cell company Plug Power plans to build a 100MW green hydrogen facility at the Belgian port of Antwerp-Bruges. The country has set itself a target of at least 150MW of electrolysis capacity in operation by 2026, based on the national hydrogen strategy. The planned complex could produce 35 t/d, or about 12,500 t/yr, of hydrogen, said Plug. Construction could begin late next year, subject to completion of the required permitting processes, and first hydrogen production is anticipated by late 2024 with the plant’s commissioning intended for 2025. According to an Argus report, Plug has signed a 30-year concession to build the complex and will use its own electrolyser technology, which is based on polymer electrolyte membranes (PEM). Hydrogen produced at the plant could be used by industrial consumers in the area and in the logistics process at the port, says Plug. It has signed an agreement with Belgian gas grid operator Fluxys to conduct a feasibility study on connecting the site to a nearby pipeline that will be part of the planned European hydrogen backbone. In Colombia, the State-owned Japan Bank for International Co-operation (JBIC) and Colombian state-controlled oil company Ecopetrol have agreed to strengthen their partnership, aiming to help enhance Colombia’s hydrogen and ammonia sectors. Colombia is promoting its ample water supplies for green hydrogen production and natural gas resources for blue hydrogen. The country outlined its hydrogen roadmap in September 2021, including plans for the production, utilization, and exportation of the fuel towards 2050, JBIC said. Ecopetrol plans to invest up to $2.5bn by 2040 in hydrogen projects as it looks to decarbonise its operations. Source: Africa Hydrogen Partnership, Argus