It is said that first impressions last and when ASX-listed AVZ Minerals Resources’ CEO NIGEL FERGUSON visited the Manono lithium project in the DRC for the first time, he knew that he was on to something big. And he was right, as today the company is in the process of developing what is potentially one of the world’s largest lithium rich LCT (lithium, caesium, tantalum) pegmatite deposits. GERARD PETER finds out more. Ferguson is a geologist with more than 35 years’ experience and has been active in the DRC since 2004 in gold and base metals exploration and resource development. In 2016, he chartered a plane to Manono in the south of the DRC. “I had planned a day trip to complete due diligence. I almost immediately went back to the pilot and asked him if he could return in three days’ time as the area was too large to cover in a single day,” he explains. Manono spans 188 km2 and hosts lithium oxide (Li2O) pegmatites with a strike length of over 13 km, centred on an historical tin mining operation. RELATED:AVZ Minerals scores long-awaited Manono Project licenseGood news for AVZ Minerals’ ahead of Manono mining license decisionAVZ Minerals completes US$240 million cornerstone investment AVZ owns 75% of the project with the remaining stake owned by state[1]owned enterprise La Congolaise d’Exploitation Minière SA. The company is responsible for funding expenditure to completion of a feasibility study and a decision to mine. In 2017, AVZ started in earnest to explore Manono with mapping, sampling, and drilling at the project. “In 2018, it was all about drilling. We had four diamond drill rigs operating 24/7 for six months and then we waited for all the assay results. Next, we completed the resource calculations and the mining studies,” Ferguson explains. The results of the drilling programme were impressive and included 235 m at 1.66% Li2O, 202.8 m at 1.57% Li2O and 250.9 m at 1.48% Li2O. In 2021, AVZ put out a definitive feasibility study based on a JORC compliant mineral resource of 400 Mt at 1.65% Li2O, which Ferguson says is the largest deposit of its kind in in the world. In May this year, the DRC’s minister of mines, Antoinette N’Samba Kalambayi, issued a Ministerial Decree to award a mining licence for Manono.” This paves the way for AVZ to start developing what is arguably one of the most important new mining projects in the world that will significantly contribute to the global green energy transition, while also uplifting the lives of the Congolese people who will contribute and receive sustained benefits from the Project for many decades to come,” explains Ferguson. Manono already attracting international interest At an estimated cost of US$545 million, Manono will be an open cast mine and will use simple, tried, and tested processing methods. It will process 4.5 Mt of ore to produce some 700 000 tpa of product and is expected to have a mine life of 29.5 years based on the current JORC reported reserves. Mining will comprise of two-stage crush and grind process where the ore goes through a high-pressure grinding roll to reduce its size. From there, it undergoes dense media separation using water and iron silicate that differentiates between the various density of materials which ultimately provides a lithium concentrate for shipment to lithium converters around the globe. Ferguson adds that the stripping ratios during the process are extremely low with just under 0.5t of waste for 1t of ore. Manono is expected to produce 6.1% Li2O content (SC6), which is in line with international standards for the product, as well as an intermediate product called “Primary Lithium Sulphate”. As demand for battery metals increases, spurred on by the ever-increasing demand for electric vehicles, Manono is already starting to attract international interest. To that end, AVZ has already signed three off-take agreements. “The first phase of production is under offtake with lithium conversion facilities in China, whilst we have also received increasing interest from OEMs and battery manufacturers in the US and Europe, underpinning the possibility of increased annual production volumes” states Ferguson. Commitment to the DRC and a greener future In November 2021, AVZ joined the DRC Battery Council, a public-private partnership that has been established to create a battery value chain in the DRC and Africa that is transformative, sustainable, innovative, socially, and environmentally responsible and economically viable. In keeping with this commitment, AVZ has allocated $60 million to develop road infrastructure in the Manono region. This includes developing the road between Manono and Lubumbashi. In addition, construction of the mine will create 250 local job opportunities. “We expect to employ between 300 and 500 people when the mine is operational and for every one job created, it is expected that it will benefit up to 10 more people through the family support system,” Ferguson adds. DRC legislation states that 0.3% of gross revenue needs to be invested in building infrastructure and projects for socio-economic development. AVZ has already started engaging with local communities to find out what their needs are, and it is envisaged that the company will spend 50% on building infrastructure and 50% on community development projects. Furthermore, AVZ aims to make Manono one of the lowest carbon emitting hard rock mines in the world. As such, it has signed a memorandum of understanding to refurbish the Mpiana Mwanga hydroelectric power station, located 87 km southeast of the project. Mpiana Mwanga has not been in commission since 1982 and once refurbished, it will provide most of the project’s power needs. The company is also investigating other renewable options such as hydrogen for fuel cell electric vehicles, biofuel options, expanded solar arrays and battery storage. With a world-class deposit and a strategy that places an emphasis on mining sustainably for the benefit of all players, Manono has all the makings of a success story. “The DRC and Africa are in a strategic position to play a pivotal role in the global transition to clean energy and decarbonisation. Manono will greatly assist to improve the fortunes of the Congolese people, which AVZ Minerals is very supportive of,” concludes Ferguson.