Anglo American, in March signed a MoU with EDF Renewables to work together towards developing a regional renewable energy ecosystem (RREE) in South Africa. The ecosystem is expected to be designed to meet Anglo American’s operational electricity requirements in South Africa through the supply of 100% renewable electricity by 2030, thereby also supporting the resilience of the local electricity supply systems and the wider decarbonisation of energy in the country. Anglo American has already secured 100% renewable electricity supply for all its operations in South America, resulting in 56% of its global grid supply expected to be sourced from renewables by 2023. In South Africa, while there is an abundance of renewable energy sources such as wind and solar, there is limited renewables infrastructure to harness it. As Anglo American progresses towards its 2040 target of carbon neutral operations, this partnership with EDF Renewables is designed to abate the largest single source of its Scope 2 emissions, being its current grid supply in South Africa. RELATED:Anglo American agrees sustainability loan with IFCAnglo American unveils world’s largest hydrogen-powered mine haul truckGreen hydrogen: Looming large for Anglo American The RREE aims to support South Africa’s decarbonisation ambitions and the country’s Just Energy Transition, creating a sustainable and inclusive future. The RREE will draw on South Africa’s natural renewable energy potential to develop a network of on-site and off-site solar and wind farms, amongst other opportunities, offering 24/7 renewable energy to Anglo American’s operations. Anglo American anticipates that several partners will provide equity financing for the RREE, in addition to the RREE attracting debt financing that is typical for high quality energy infrastructure projects. The partnership is expected to bring a host of benefits to South Africa and the region, including: “South Africa is embarking on the next phase of its economic development, with clean, reliable, and affordable energy playing a critical role in delivering this potential – helping to catalyse new industrial hubs and stimulate local economic activity. “Anglo American is committed to supporting this Just Energy Transition, encouraging growth and development for our host communities and South Africa through such projects as the RREE – very much in tune with our Collaborative Regional Development approach,” says Nolitha Fakude, chair of Anglo American’s management board in South Africa.