West Wits Mining has agreed with its BEE partner, Lilitha Resources to acquire Lilitha’s interest in its subsidiary West Wits Mining SA for $50,000 in cash and 96,000,000 fully paid ordinary shares in WWI. This acquisition increases WWI’s direct ownership interest of WBP to 74% and simplifies the corporate structure. The acquisition is mutually beneficial for both WWI and Lilitha, as it extends the two companies’ long-term relationship. West Wits Managing Director Jac van Heerden said, “The Acquisition increases WWI’s share of the WBP at a substantial notional discount to the value implied by the US$227M NPV of the WBP Scoping Study released in March this year. The transaction also substantially simplifies the Company’s corporate structure, making WWM SA 100% owned by WWI, and further aligns our BEE partner’s interest to the Company by becoming a WWI shareholder, extending our long-term and valued relationship.” WWI’s South African project has previously been 33.4% owned by BEE partner, Lilitha. The BEE structure surpasses South Africa’s Mining Charter requirement of a minimum of 26%. Lilitha played an active part in the Company’s activities and was instrumental in obtaining the WBP’s mining rights. The pre-acquisition company structure is depicted in Figure 1 in the Appendix. Changes to South Africa’s foreign investment rules will, subject to regulatory approval, enable Lilitha to swap a 7.4% effective interest in the WBP for aggregate consideration comprising $50,000 in cash and 96M fully paid ordinary WWI shares. The company says that 75% of the WWI shares will be held in escrow, released via two equal tranches (36M WWI shares each), 240 days and 360 days from the completion date. Lilitha’s direct interest as a WWI shareholder underscores the strategic partnership and commitment to the growth of WWI. Read more about West Wits Mining: West Wits Mining appoints MD to drive underground gold development The substantial non-cash component of the consideration enables WWI to preserve cash for the development of the WBP, whilst Lilitha obtains promising exposure as a shareholder at the WWI group level.