In its heyday Kipushi, in the Democratic Republic of Congo, was the world’s richest copper mine. Over a span of 69 years, it produced a total of 6.6 million tonnes of zinc and 4 million tonnes of copper from 60 million tonnes of ore grading 11% zinc and approximately 7% copper. It also produced 278 tonnes of germanium and 12,673 tonnes of lead between 1956 and 1978. In 1993 the mine was placed on care and maintenance. Now, Ivanhoe Mines is firmly on Track to recommence operations at this historic mine. GERARD PETER finds out more from OLIVIER BINYINGO,Ivanhoe’s vice president of public affairs in the DRC. The Kipushi copper-zinc-germanium-silver mine in the DRC Copperbelt is adjacent to the town of Kipushi and approximately 30 km southwest of Lubumbashi. It is located less than 1 km from the Zambian border. Kipushi has a long and storied history as a major producer of copper and zinc. Built and then operated by Union Minière for 42 years, Kipushi began mining a reported 18% copper deposit from a surface open pit in 1924. It then transitioned to become Africa’s richest underground copper, zinc and germanium mine. State-owned Gécamines gained control of Kipushi in 1967 and operated the mine until 1993, when it was placed on care and maintenance due to a combination of economic and political factors. Ivanhoe’s interest in Kipushi, held through Kipushi Holding (a wholly owned subsidiary), was acquired in November 2011 and includes mining rights for copper, cobalt, zinc, silver, lead, and germanium as well as the underground workings and related infrastructure. In February this year, Ivanhoe and Gécamines signed a new agreement to return Kipushi to commercial production. The parties agreed on commercial terms in order to establish a robust framework for the mutually beneficial operation of the mine. Kipushi will be the world’s highest-grade major zinc mine, with average grade of 36.4% zinc over the first five years of production. “As a result, we now have a clear path forward to bring a historic mine back into production and to create value for the project’s stakeholders, including neighbouring communities,” explains Binyingo. The redevelopment of Kipushi is based on a two-year construction timeline, which utilises the significant existing surface and underground infrastructure to allow for substantiallylower capital costs than comparable development projects. The estimated pre-production capital cost is US$382 million. Discussions are continuing with prospective financing providers to support the project’s advancement towards production. “Major progress has been made in upgrading the mine’s underground infrastructure, and we now have a clear path to a resumption of production from this incredibly rich orebody. The main critical path item is the construction of a new processing plant and associated infrastructure on site to produce zinc concentrate from ore hoisting from underground,” states Binyingo. Binyingo adds that significant progress has been made in recent years to modernise Kipushi’s underground infrastructure in preparation for the resumption of commercial production. This includes upgrading a series of vertical mine shafts to various depths, with associated headgear, as well as underground mine excavations and infrastructure. “Given this previous work, advancing Kipushi back to production is a relatively straightforward process – in relation to comparable mining developments – and also allows for a substantially lower capital cost.” Furthermore, a series of crosscuts and ventilation infrastructure is still in working condition and has been cleared of old materials and equipment to facilitate modern, mechanised mining. The underground infrastructure also includes a series of high-capacity pumps to manage the mine’s water levels, which are now easily maintained at the bottom of the mine. Focus on Big Zinc Since acquiring its interest in Kipushi in 2011, Ivanhoe’s drilling campaigns have upgraded and expanded the mine’s zinc-rich measured and indicated mineral resources to an estimated 11.78 million tonnes grading 35.34% zinc, 0.80% copper, 23 g/t silver and 64 g/t germanium, at a 7% zinc cut-off, containing 9.2 billion pounds of zinc, 8.7 Moz of silver and 24.4 Moz of germanium. In addition, Ivanhoe’s drilling expanded Kipushi’s copper-rich measured and indicated mineral resources to an additional 2.29 million tonnes at grades of 4.03% copper, 2.85% zinc, 21 g/t silver and 19 g/t germanium, at a 1.5% copper cut-off Most of Kipushi’s historical production was from the Fault Zone, a steeply-dipping ore body rich in copper and zinc that initially was mined as an open pit. The Fault Zone extends to a depth of at least 1 800 m below surface, along the intersection of a fault in carbonaceous dolomites. Shortly before the Kipushi mine was idled in 1993, the Big Zinc, one of the deposits within the Kipushi mining licence, was discovered by Gécamines at a depth of approximately 1 250 m below surface and adjacent to the producing Fault Zone – but was never mined. Big Zinc is distinguished by exceptionally high zinc grades of up to 40% zinc. According to a feasibility study released in February this year, Ivanhoe will focus on mining Big Zinc initially and later the Southern Zinc zone, with an estimated 11.8 million tonnesof measured and indicated mineral resources grading 35.3% zinc overall. “The mine is expected to produce 240 000 tpa over a 14-year life of mine. With a zinc grade of 32%, it is expected to rank Kipushi among the world’s major zinc mines with the highest grade by some margin,” adds Binyingo. Furthermore, a framework for tendering for the offtake of zinc concentrates produced by Kipushi has been established, which includes Gécamines’ participation. The feasibility study does not include any of the other mineral resources and Binyingo explains that at first the focus will be to responsibly, efficiently and expeditiously develop Kipushi into an ultra-high-grade zinc producer. However, further exploration activities will be carried out with the potential to find more zinc, copper, germanium and silver resources. Mining at Kipushi has historically been carried out from the surface to a depth of approximately 1 220 metres. The mine’s Shaft 5 (P5) is planned to be the main production shaft with a maximum hoisting capacity of 1.8 Mtpa and provides the primary access to the lower levels of the mine, including the Big Zinc Zone, through the 1 150 m haulage level. Mining will be performed using highly productive mechanized methods and cemented rockfill will be utilized to fill open stopes. Material generated underground will be trucked to the base of the P5 shaft, crushed and hoisted to surface. Personnel and equipment access are also via the P5 shaft. The Big Zinc Zone will be accessed via the existing decline, without significant new development required. As the existing decline already is below the first planned stoping level, it is relatively quick to develop the first zinc stopes for the ramp-up of mine production. Kipushi reinforces Ivanhoe’s commitment to the DRC Much like at the world-scale Kamoa-Kakula Copper Mining Complex, also located in the DRC, Ivanhoe Mines will prioritise local employment, skill development and training. It is estimated that there will be a workforce of between 400 and 600 mine personnel throughout production. “New initiatives will be implemented focusing on the development of Congolese employees, including individual development, the identification of future leaders, succession planning and the promotion of gender equality across the workforce,” states Binyingo. So how does Kipushi fit into the Ivanhoe portfolio once operational? Binyingo explains, “The new agreement with Gécamines allows Ivanhoe Mines to responsibly and efficiently develop Kipushi into an ultra-high-grade zinc producer, with potential to find more zinc, copper, germanium and silver resources – paving the way to fulfilling its promise of significant, long-lasting, economic and social benefits for the Congolese people. We have a clear plan to have our three enter commercial production.”