Since 2021, the mining industry has demonstrated a commitment to achieving zero harm. All but Harmony Gold. The mining company has had a dark cloud hanging over it, with a reported number of 6 deaths in the 1st half of 2022. Amid strides made by the Minerals Council on the importance of maintaining zero harm, the gold mining company has had multiple fatal incidents at its Doornkop and recently Kusasalethu complexes. The cause of fatalities range from material car incidents, infrastructure maintenance incidents to engineering-related incidents. The company has posted a total of 21 fatality announcements between January 2019 to March 2021.These question the level of compliance that Harmony Gold has to the Health and Safety Act and points out to the consequent behaviour changes that are needed. “Our heartfelt condolences go out to those impacted by this loss-of-life. We are deeply saddened and very concerned by the frequency of incidents, particularly at this mine – it is unacceptable. A safety day was held at Kusasalethu today, where everyone – including the unions – reinforced safety messages and emphasised the importance of our safety and accountability values. Our priority at this stage is to support the families, colleagues and friends impacted by this tragedy and to conduct a comprehensive investigation into the reason for yet another incident,” said Peter Steenkamp, chief executive officer of Harmony. VIDEO: Minerals Council South Africa addresses fall of ground issues According to the Minerals Council SA, the number of fatal injuries in the South African mining industry has been decreasing consistently since 2000. The lowest number of fatalities within this period was recorded in 2019 at 51. There was a slight increase in 2021, with 74 South African mining fatalities. In demonstrating the mining industry’s commitment to achieving zero harm, the MCSA launched the National Day of Health and Safety in Mining in 2021. Having interviewed a group of 300 miners from platinum and gold mines, a MCSA report indicated that miners were reluctant of applying Section 22 and 23 of the MHSA (which stipulates those workers have the right to withdraw from dangerous workings) fearing to be victimized. Among other factors contributing to fatalities, are labour and material shortages, lack of safety incentives and issues of communication. “Rock engineers sometimes lack communication. It is always important that they thoroughly explain hazards to the crew.” said Adwoa Issaka Mineral Council South Africa MOSH Learning Hub. Issaka added that these challenges were not only technical, but people’s behavioural patterns and the systems they put in place. Related :Diagnosing the mining death toll: The link between workplace culture and safety Members of the MCSA approved an Action Plan to accelerate the implementation of the Mine Safe commitments. It was agreed that industry-leading safety practices, learnings from incident investigations and their outcomes and peer reviews should be shared and that safety culture surveys and in-depth analysis of the causes of fatalities be conducted. “These are people, families, relatives, friends, and colleagues. The impact of every single fatality is very well understood. As CEOs, we are called upon to show leadership. We have the influence and the authority to stop this. We do not want to be known as the industry where people come to work and die,” says Themba Mkhwanazi, Chair of the Minerals Council’s CEO Zero Harm Forum.