We started the week with news of David Brown’s death and ANOTHER admission of guilt from mining firm Glencore in relation to bribery charges in the United Kingdom. And, more news about the pariah of the world – Russia, taking some time from its efforts in the Ukraine to spread some death and destruction in Africa. Glencore was accused of paying millions of dollars in bribes to secure access to crude oil in several African countries. It also pleaded guilty to corruption charges in the US and Brazil. It’s not a good look being mentioned in the same comparison to Russia. Commodity colonisation in Africa is getting out of hand. Yes China – we’re looking at you too. A Glencore subsidiary pleaded guilty on seven counts of bribery in connection with oil operations in Nigeria, Cameroon, Equatorial Guinea, Ivory Coast and South Sudan on Tuesday in Southwark Crown Court. The bad news for Glencore is that it still faces in Switzerland and the Netherlands. This follows the company agreeing to pay a $1.1billion settlement in the United States over a scheme to bribe officials in seven countries during a decade. And now, to turn to Russia. Mercenaries have been accused of deadly attacks on mines on Sudan- Central African Republic (CAR) border. It has been reported that dozens of people have been killed in attacks allegedly involving Wagner Group fighters. Russian mercenaries mounted a series of bloody attacks on artisanal mines in the lawless border zones between Sudan and CAR to plunder the region’s valuable gold trade. Dozens of miners are thought to have died in at least three major attacks this year allegedly involving mercenaries working for the Wagner Group, a private military company that has been linked to the Kremlin by western officials. Since arriving in CAR four years ago to defend the government against rebels, Wagner has made efforts to establish control over the flow of gold and diamonds. Analysts believe the group was initially promised gold and other mining concessions in place of cash payments for its services. Concessions like these have gained importance as the rouble has taking a battering since Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Precious metals, especially gold, could help Vladimir Putin’s regime survive the economic impact of sanctions.