On the 25th of May, Africa celebrated Africa day. Africa Day is a day set aside to commemorate the decolonisation of Africa and the day that the Organisation of African Unity (OAU, now African Union) was formed in 1963. In many ways, Africa has advanced over the last five decades, and much more still needs to be achieved, especially as regards broad-based development. The continent’s mineral wealth has always been a focal point in the development and advancement of African economies. The continent provides an array of strategic and valuable raw minerals to the global economy with recognised potential for discovering significant new deposits. Many mineral-rich countries heavily rely on their raw mineral exports and foreign direct investment for government revenues and development. The role of Africa as a critical supplier in the global mineral supply chain has been entrenched, and the internal discourse regarding the future of mining primarily revolves around beneficiation and the potential to maximise the returns of large-scale mining into mining economies and communities around them. RELATED:How can safety in the artisanal sector be promoted?WGC report: interface between large, small-scale and artisanal gold miningArtisanal cobalt mining in the DRC: steps already in play The African Mining Vision (AVM) stipulates the shared strategic objective of the industry as ensuring the transparent, equitable and optimal exploitation of mineral resources to underpin broad-based sustainable growth and socio-economic development. One of the objectives of the AVM is harnessing the potential of artisanal and small-scale mining to stimulate local/national entrepreneurship, improve livelihoods and advance integrated rural social and economic development. Many countries have concerted efforts to realise this objective; however, it has proved the most challenging because the sector cannot easily subscribe to standardised economic rules and models. It is trite that the largest economic sector by participation in Africa is the artisanal, small and medium scale industry. The prominent presence of the artisanal, small and medium scale sectors is prevalent across many economic sectors. A significant portion of the continent’s domestic capital resides in the artisanal, small and medium scale economy tiers. However, it is also true that artisanal, small and medium-scale enterprises experience the most significant vulnerability. In the face of increased pressure from the covid-19 pandemic and the ripple effects of a weakening global economy, artisanal and small-scale mining enterprises are experiencing significant financial and operational pressure. The pressure is accentuated by the fact that the artisanal and small scale enterprises are not adequately supported and often experience poor regulation. It is a considered view that there is a strong correlation between the growth and sustainability of the artisanal and small-scale mining sector with achieving objectives such as increased beneficiation or industrialisation in African economies. The prevailing global economic model has been designed for the large-scale mining industry in Africa to export its raw materials to industrialised countries that have the capacity and compelling cost structures to beneficiate or further process the minerals. While this model provides much needed foreign direct investment and forex to African countries, it does not support the industrialisation of producer countries. For mineral-rich countries to increase their capacity to beneficiate and consequently industrialise, there is a need for the domestic utilisation of raw mineral resources. While many mineral-rich countries have attempted to introduce measures supporting the mandatory beneficiation of minerals in their countries, the results have not met the desired expectations. The lukewarm outcome of compulsory beneficiation is caused by many factors, including the lack of capital and capacity in African mineral-rich countries to develop strong beneficiation and industrial value chains. The optimisation of artisanal and small-scale mining (ASM) enterprises is crucial to improving the domestic utilisation of raw materials in Africa. While the large-scale mining sector has concentrated on accessing large high-grade mineral deposits to ensure the viability of their operations, there is an abundance of lower-grade deposits deemed uneconomical for large entities but economical for smaller entities. Identifying and utilising such deposits is essential for the effective utilisation of resources and opportunities in the African mining industry. Therefore, more resources and effort need to be allocated to exploration and mapping that targets the identification of concessions for artisanal, small and medium scale mining enterprises. As highlighted above, the primary strategy for mineral-rich countries has been to pursue investment in large-scale mining to produce and export mineral resources. This over-arching strategy is also evident in the ASM sector, where ASM production is also mainly sold to the international commodities market and aggregated for integration into the large-scale mineral supply chain. However, this export-oriented approach diminishes the potential for economic development that mineral wealth poses for the continent. The mining industry in Africa has to envisage itself as a consumer of its raw materials/minerals through its local industry. The small and medium scale enterprise (SME) value chain can play a critical role because it has the capacity to absorb mineral product from the ASM sector for beneficiation and even manufacturing. The domestic utilisation of raw minerals would ignite local production and manufacturing in specific industry segments, albeit at small scale levels. However, this is the seed required for industrialisation. All large-scale enterprises started as artisanal enterprises that were afforded the necessary conditions and support to thrive until they could attract enough capital to grow beyond their initial parameters. Likewise, the mining and utilisation of minerals at artisanal and small-scale mining levels must be optimised and allowed to thrive. The successful optimisation of the ASM sector will eventually create a diversified value chain, thus improving the prospects of a sustainable domestic industry. The future of mining in Africa must include the promotion of the effective regulation and utilisation of minerals from the ASM sector. The ability to bring sustainable order and purpose to the sector is critical in attaining many objectives that mineral-rich Africa has long sought to achieve. Fundamentally, the sustainability of the artisanal, small and medium scale mining enterprises also facilitates the enhanced participation of locals in benefiting from their mineral wealth. Furthermore, the accrual of social capital through the increased participation and promotion of ASM enterprises is a crucial ingredient to the sustainability of the mining industry in Africa. It demystifies the sector and allows locals to benefit from mineral wealth directly. Admittedly, channelling or promoting the use of ASM production for domestic use is a significant feat because it is tied to investment and creating broader capacity in the economy. However, the attainment of the objectives of the African Mining Vision requires dynamic thought and robust utilisation of every opportunity available for advancement. Therefore, the mobilisation of resources, ideas and efforts towards enlarging the scope of rewards from the mining sector is paramount. Therefore, while the large scale mining industry is vital to our African economies, it is important to also emphasise and prioritise the opportunities that the ASM sector presents for broad-based development and diversification.