Fitch Ratings has increased near-term price assumptions for iron ore, coking and thermal coal, nickel, and zinc, reflecting stronger post-pandemic demand and supply disruptions, particularly from Russia. We expect low inventories, increasing demand due to Chinese economic stimulus and eased lockdowns to support copper prices in 2H22. Global supply is tight due to disruptions, including escalating social tensions in Peru and water supply issues in Chile. However, we anticipate global production growth later in 2022 to offset disruptions. We still expect prices to moderate in 2023 as supplies from new mines increase. The market will then remain largely balanced. The energy transition will also drive demand, while medium-term supply growth will moderate. RELATED:Fitch Ratings raises global metals and mining price assumptionsFitch Ratings increases global metals and mining price assumptions Our increased 2022 iron ore price reflects the strong average year-to-date (ytd) price of USD140 per tonne, which will moderate later. Supply concerns (the Ukraine-Russia war and seasonally lower Brazilian and Australian shipments) have supported prices, despite lower steel production in China yoy due to policy requirements and lower demand. Although lockdowns are easing, construction activities are slow to resume, and manufacturing companies are hesitating to re-open due to fear of new infections. While the government is committed to stimulus and monetary policy easing, there has not yet been a recovery in steel demand. There could be some price upside if steel consumption revives early in 2H22. Low-cost iron ore supply should move the market into surplus in two-to-three years. We have raised coking coal assumptions for 2022-2023, reflecting record pricing ytd due to disrupted supplies from Australia and Russia. Prices moderated in 2Q22 once some exports recovered. Russian seaborne supply will remain below pre-war levels, with CRU estimating a reduction of 20 million tonnes in 2022 and a further six million tonnes in 2023, before some recovery. We expect global long-term demand to fall on lower Chinese consumption, offsetting growth in other regions. Our aluminium assumptions are unchanged. Market prices have fallen from high levels, reflecting weaker sentiment, but high energy costs and low inventories will support prices in 2022. Automakers in China have re-started production as lock-downs ease, with some extra shifts to fulfil strong electric vehicles (EV) demand. Slowing GDP growth, higher inflation and early restarts at Chinese smelters will reduce the global deficit to 0.7 million tonnes in 2022 from the 2.25 million tonnes forecast by CRU in February. We expect a broadly balanced market in 2023-2025, potentially going into surplus from 2026. The increased zinc assumptions for 2022-2023 reflect smelter disruptions due to high energy costs, partially offset by a modest decline in demand in China and flat global demand. Supply is price-elastic and highly fragmented, which should spur smelter restarts once energy prices stabilise at lower levels. Our gold price assumptions remain unchanged reflecting its ‘haven’ investment status amid the Russia-Ukraine conflict and rising inflationary pressures. Gold prices should eventually moderate on reduced geopolitical risks and as the cycle of rising interest rates continues, increasing the opportunity cost of holding gold. Our increased thermal coal assumptions for 2022-2023 reflect high ytd prices, supported by tight supply due to the Australian wet season, strong Indian demand mitigating lower demand in China, and structurally higher prices of Newcastle 6,000. However, Australian supplies will eventually recover, while India and China have increased imports from Russia, helping meet recovering Chinese demand. The increased 2022 nickel assumption reflects strong ytd pricing. Low inventories, disruptions at Norilsk Nickel and Vale, sanctions fears, stronger-than-expected battery-driven demand, and a speculative rally in March, have rebased short- and medium-term prices. We have raised assumptions for 2023-2024 as inventories, while normalising, will remain below historical levels, while demand from stainless steel and EV increases. However, Indonesian supply additions will leave the market oversupplied, although fast-growing EV demand represents some upside.