Green Hydrogen has proven itself a prospective renewable energy source. With other countries following suit, Africa bears the potential to be the world’s model on the journey towards decarbonisation. At its recent panel discussion, Africa Practice unpacked the potential of hydrogen in South Africa’s ailing economy. “The development of the hydrogen economy promises to spur the development of new industries and create jobs. With vast solar and wind potential, extensive deposits of platinum, and an amenable regulatory environment, Africa is well positioned to become a green hydrogen superpower,” says Marcus Courage CEO of Africa Practice who chaired the seminar. The speakers covered the opportunities for platinum miners in the green hydrogen revolution; initiatives to co-create the hydrogen economy; the steps required to develop the value chain and boost local employment; and the regulatory and institutional reforms necessary to expedite the energy transition. Worldwide, there are some 28,000 mining trucks producing greenhouse gas emissions equivalent to the nation of Austria annually. Anglo American Platinum is piloting green hydrogen at its platinum group metals mine in Mogalakwena, Limpopo province, South Africa, in a bid to reach carbon-neutrality across its operations by 2040. In May, Anglo American launched the world’s largest hydrogen-powered mine haul truck at Mogalakwena. The hybrid truck was developed by Anglo American and designed to operate in everyday mining conditions. It is powered by an 800KW hydrogen fuel cell and a 1.2MW battery. These collectively generate more power than the standard diesel engine, enabling the truck to carry a 290-tonne payload. Engie was responsible for hydrogen production and hydrogen infrastructure. “We have received quite an overwhelming response, and I think that because its part of a crucial step for us to unlock the hydrogen economy. This a potential for future job opportunities in a country that desperately needs it.” says Anglo American CEO Natascha Viljoen. RELATED:Mining Indaba VIDEO: In conversation with Natascha ViljoenSouth Africa leads the continent’s green hydrogen agendaAnglo American unveils world’s largest hydrogen-powered mine haul truckGreen hydrogen: Looming large for Anglo American The prototype truck was developed at record speed, between 2019 and 2021, and it is the first of 40 vehicles at Mogalakwena to be converted to green hydrogen, which will be generated on site thanks to solar power. Anglo American aims to convert all 400 trucks across seven mining operations to green hydrogen by 2030 under its strategy to develop a zero-emission haulage system.” This gives us an assurance that there will be more job opportunities for our community members even in future.” says Alex Lekgau, Anglo’s first hydrogen haul truck driver. Currently, diesel emissions from the haul truck fleet account for between 10-15% of Anglo American’s total Scope 1 emissions; however, replacing diesel with green hydrogen in 400 vehicles would reduce equivalent CO2 emissions associated with 500,000 current diesel vehicles on the road, according to Fahmida Smith, Principal Market Development at Anglo American. Read more about Hydrogen: South Africa leads the continent’s green hydrogen agenda Dr Rebecca Maserumule, Chief Director for Hydrogen and Energy at the South African Department of Science and Innovation (DSI) views the development of a green hydrogen economy as playing an important role in helping to address the government’s triple challenges of poverty, unemployment, and inequality. In February, the DSI published a Hydrogen Society Roadmap – authored with contributions from sixty stakeholder groups – which sets out a national hydrogen strategy aimed at realising domestic energy security needs, while also positioning the country to export green hydrogen and ammonia to Europe and Asia. Green hydrogen and ammonia projects are made up of many component parts – each with its own legal challenges in different jurisdictions. Jason van der Poel, Head of the Energy Sector Group, Webber Wentzel, noted that the renewable energy portion is made more complex in South Africa in the absence of a standardised power purchase agreement for private buyers. Negotiations can be convoluted, raising risk navigation issues. South Africa is building up to a competitive multi-market for power; however, regulations are not yet law and the market is not yet fully open. The licensing and registration environment for these projects is still maturing. Fahmida Smith highlighted that several other African nations are preparing to participate in the hydrogen economy. Namibia, South Africa, Morocco, and Egypt are each at advanced stages of preparedness, with master plans developed, investment incentives introduced and commitments from private project partners secured. Kenya, the Horn of Africa, and Mauritania are following close behind. More African nations are expected to announce plans for developing green hydrogen ahead of the 27th Conference of Parties in Sharm-El-Sheikh, Egypt, in November. The opportunity for these nations, and others, to harness their abundant natural resources and to become primary players in the production of green hydrogen and green ammonia exists today, supplying a means to address national energy insecurity, produce fertiliser feedstock to tackle food insecurity and create sizable economic opportunities in the hydrogen value chain. 