According to an Everest Group study, a whopping 73% of enterprises fail to derive any business value from their digital transformation efforts. Some of the key recommendations of the report in avoiding the pitfalls of digital transformation are to map out the business needs, to focus on implementing technologies that will deliver value early on, and to prioritise those technologies and systems that will work in an iterative way. This approach is certainly applicable to mining where, rather than uprooting entire legacy systems, it is far more practical and beneficial to invest in solid data foundations including rigorous data collection and sound data management, and to focus on these areas as enablers for all future digital transformation efforts. Fully integrated, reliable data, combined with a robust data management strategy, empowers mining companies to implement the continuous, smaller-scale improvements that will ultimately deliver those deep insights that drive better decision-making. Back to basics Whilst perhaps not immediately obvious, one comparison that can be made regarding digital transformation in the production of industrial minerals is to consider the operational aspects of commercial baking. Here, all ingredients – the flour, the butter, and the sugar – need to have identical characteristics to ensure every cake produced is of the same quality. Similarly, in industrial minerals mining and indeed in the wider mining industry, consistency of resources is instrumental in ensuring efficient and optimised production processes. High variability in any aspect of mining operations will impact the utilisation of production lines, will drive inefficiencies, and will cause uncertainty that in turn has the potential to drive up costs. Conversely, consistency in delivery is key to meeting customer specifications, to supporting quality of production, and ultimately in ensuring customer satisfaction and trust in the company. By gaining a better understanding of the resource, mining companies can not only reduce the short-term uncertainty today, but they can also optimise their operations longer term to extract maximum value from a finite commodity. Why rocks and data go hand in hand Quality and availability of data are two of the most important enablers of digital transformation. Without the right quality and availability of rocks and minerals, we don’t have a mine. And in the same way, without the right quality and availability of your resource data, we can’t transform our industry. Like the rocks in the ground, data is a valuable resource. The value of your rocks and data are also mutually dependent. There is no value having one without the other. The differentiator is that you can use your existing data to increase the value of your resource. A detailed resource model that accurately defines the spatial and volumetric characterisation provides several value-add opportunities.  This is how one company increased its limestone resource, lowered operational costs, and increased its sustainability. LafargeHolcim is a world leader in the extraction and processing of industrial minerals, operating across 75 countries and 2 300 operating sites and with over 72 000 employees. By the end of 2014, its Columbia based Nobsa Cement plant, which sourced raw materials from three quarries including its own self-operated Nobsa quarry, was at risk of stopping production due to a lack of raw materials. LafargeHolcim’s Group lead geologist, Rodolfo Vargas Pedroza, explains: “The lack of a sound geological model was making it difficult to properly understand material quality and therefore to develop a reliable plan, particularly as existing plans were frequently aborted when something unexpected was encountered. “Now, because of implementing the use of advanced geological modelling technology, rather than sending the marginal material to waste, we can now define and blend the low grade with the limited high-grade material we have modelled, increasing the resource base from two to 35 years. This has had a significant impact on strip ratio, reducing it from 7:1 to 1.5:1. We have also reduced the amount of limestone brought from external quarries, reducing operating cost by US$2.5 million per year.” As experts in geological modelling and digital twins, Seequent is supporting LafargeHolcim in understanding the environmental benefits gained from better visibility and sustainable management of the deposit in pursuit of its 2030 plan and sustainability commitment, an initiative which looks to create more value from waste by transforming resources for all production processes. Your data is your resource Despite the demonstrable benefits associated with understanding resource data underpinned by sound management, many mining businesses still lack the ability to procure and access data that is securely and consistently stored, and that is accessible, shareable, and auditable. This is particularly pertinent as data sits at the very core of business success – especially with resources becoming harder to find, and with infrastructure projects becoming more complex. 83% of respondents to the recent 2021 Geoscience Data Management Report survey voiced concerns about their organisations’ geoscience data management. This may be due to the ‘digital transformation fatigue’ that is becoming pervasive in the industry; or could result from a resistance to change within some organisations; or perhaps there is a lack of support and buy-in from key stakeholders. To support digital transformation efforts, mining companies need integrated workflows to manage data, allowing more effective collaboration with stakeholders, investors, and auditors. The more you can improve collaboration between these parties, the better your chances of driving efficiency, profitability, and sustainability. With a holistic overview of moving parts, communication is more streamlined, and with everything visible, auditing is made easier. But when engaging the various stakeholders in the benefits of the digital transformation process, the first question will almost always be how to measure success, particularly in the context of the level of investment required, the complexity of operations, and the breadth of touchpoints data has across many organisations. Big projects are far more likely to fail than smaller sprints and initiatives that deliver measurable results, and within digital transformation, this can be achieved through implementing those small, incremental steps and changes that quickly demonstrate that crucial return on investment. Consolidating and rationalising data with the right blend of technology and support gives teams the freedom to spend their time on the important tasks they’re best at, rather than scrambling through endless, unsorted data. For example, moving from isolated static data sources such as Excel to a sophisticated database which draws on real time intelligence makes it far easier to share and access critical information, allowing companies to make big strides towards adopting more sophisticated projects such as AI and ML in a measurable, iterative way. Supported by knowledgeable experts and robust change management processes, companies can achieve the best possible return on investment on their digital transformation journey. Data is critical to the value of any modern business operation. It increases the accuracy of business decisions and underpins the most critical business decisions in the mining industry. However, unless it is easily managed, it becomes more of a burden than an opportunity. Through the adoption of proven technologies and data management processes offered by partnering with experienced industry providers and partners, companies can de-risk the transition to an integrated, informed, data-first business. ABOUT THE AUTHOR Edwards is a geologist with 15 years’ experience across a range of commodities and regions. His roles have taken him from early-stage exploration through to the study of future technologies in the mining industry. His current role with Seequent sees him combining these skills to implement technologies that transform the understanding of their resources and unlock the untapped value of their geoscience data.