How quickly time flies – especially in the DRC. Having attended in person – yes in-person – last week, I’m excited to reflect on the event that we awaited so eagerly to arrive. First the stats – they are impressive: + 5 200 visitors +800 delegates and VIPs +200 sponsors and exhibitors Let me highlight that these are record numbers for our event. It was pumping, literally and everybody who is anybody was there. I anticipated buzz and I got it, but on a level greater than I could have expected – don’t you agree? But let me reflect on some of the highlights that resonated with me, which I will carry close to my heart for the remainder of the year… Her Excellency, H.E Antoinette Nsamba Kalambayi, the DRC’s minister of mines presented a strong and confident front – not only did she open the event but remained on site during the three days to attend our women in mining lunch and a session directly thereafter – a clear indicator of ministry’s ongoing support for everything DRC Mining Week stands for. Her Excellency was supported by various governors and ambassadors as well. I not only had the opportunity to moderate two sessions, I was also able to meet and interview a wide variety of DRC influencers through our video interviews at the Mining Review Africa and Mayfair Insurance media lounge. And do you know I think more than half of my interviewees were women! This is a passionate subject in the DRC mining industry and the women’s lunch demonstrated this as key female stakeholders shared their experiences together. I couldn’t understand the French, but I could understand the passion! It was memorable! The event ended on a high – I think the busiest time was at 4pm on closing day – there were so many people still networking you’d think it was the start of our event, not the end. No, we didn’t want to leave…. I hope the business opportunities and networking we offered will take you forward for the rest of the year and into 2023 as we start planning our event again. Can it get bigger and better? You bet it can, and it will. Everyone is in love with the DRC – and its not hard to see why. A tous nos sponsors et exposants, merci pour votre soutien. Si vous n’avez pas eu la chance de nous rejoindre cette année, pensez à réserver la date pour la prochaine edition : 14-16 Juin 2023