Tharisa, the PGM and chrome co-producer listed on the JSE and LSE, has received on site and already begun operational testing of three Liebherr mining machines with more efficient engines and fuel systems. The partnership is part of Tharisa’s ESG initiative to reduce its carbon footprint. The two T 236 mining trucks with a capacity of 100 metric tonnes and one 72 t PR 776 dozer, both of which use the latest generation diesel engine technology with the T 236s using Cummins QST 30 engines and the PR 776 utilising the Liebherr D 9512 engine, are characterised by low-level fuel consumption, and will be fully stress-tested under operational conditions for 18 months. They will operate as part of the production fleet under supervision of both Tharisa’s mining team and Liebherr Mining Africa. These state-of-the-art diesel-electric mining trucks with drive-train technology benefit from improved fuel economy due to their efficient engine and fuel system, advanced airflow system, low-end torque performance and emissions capability. The trucks’ continuous drive system technology will be field tested to determine whether the machines can withstand the climatic and geomorphological makeup of the hard rock mining of the Bushveld Complex. RELATED:Efficiency in electric motors drives savings, sustainabilityVanadium set for “disruptive” growth as battery energy storage gains momentum The aim of the long-term, real-life tests is to ensure the trucks reduce diesel consumption and costs while testing the machines’ ability to deliver a minimised environmental footprint, while still delivering on production metrics, as part of Tharisa’s drive for a more sustainable mining environment. One of Tharisa’s core values is safety and the T 236 has a variety of operational safety features such as payload warnings, anti-rollback features, engine shutdown switches in the cab and at ground level, and an integrated four corner park brake system. These safety systems are in line with the current specifications of the existing truck fleet operating at the Tharisa mine and will ensure the continued safety and wellbeing of its staff and contractors as they work on site. The PR 776 dozer has a high-efficiency rating of the hydrostatic drive across the entire vehicle speed range, which further minimises fuel consumption and ensures reduced levels of carbon dioxide emissions. “Our commitment to reducing our carbon footprint by 30% by 2030 and becoming net carbon neutral by 2050 is in action and includes using efficient technology,” says Tebogo Matsimela, head of ESG at Tharisa. “When we announced our targets, we already had an action plan in place and the intention to meet, if not exceed, our 2030 target. Liebherr has been a partner to Tharisa, and like all our other partners, we constantly challenge them to come up with innovative, cost-saving and environmentally friendly solutions that ensure our materials, which themselves are necessary for a more sustainable world, are produced in a sustainable manner. “Investing in the next generation of mining equipment will reduce our carbon footprint and costs, allowing us to deliver enhanced and sustainable returns to our shareholders.”