Condor Gold has announced its placement of 11,607,149 Units at 28p per unit for aggregate gross proceeds of approximately £3.25 million before expenses, including a Directors subscription of 1,833,573 Units. The placing has been undertaken by the company and its broker, SP Angel, with institutional and other investors. Completion of the Placing is conditional upon admission of the Units to trading on AIM, expected to be on 17 June 2022. The company has received conditional approval from the Toronto Stock Exchange for the Placing. “Condor Gold has conducted a private placement, issuing new ordinary shares representing approximately 7.9% of the company’s existing issued share capital, to raise gross proceeds of approximately £3.25 million. The placement proceeds will be primarily used to complete a Feasibility Study at the La India Project, increasing the confidence of the Project, incorporating a Feasibility Level engineering design, and +/- 15% capital and operating costs. The Feasibility Study will be a key document as the company seeks to secure Project financing ahead of Project construction”. commented Mark Child, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Condor. Details of the Placing and Directors Subscription Each unit is comprised of one ordinary share in the company with a nominal or par value of 20p each and one-half of one ordinary share purchase warrant. Each Warrant, which is unlisted and fully transferable, will entitle the holder thereof to purchase one OrdinaryShare at a price of 35p for a period of 36 months from the date on which the Units are issued pursuant to the Placing. All of the securities comprising the units are subject to resale restrictions into Canada which will expire four months and one day from the date of issue. Read more about Gold: AngloGold Ashanti approved to list on A2X A total of 11,607,149 Units have been placed with placees at the PlacingPrice to raise gross proceeds of approximately £3.25 million. As part of the placing, the company has advised that through the Directors Subscription three Directors of the company, namely Mark Child, Andrew Cheatle and Jim Mellon, have subscribed for 30,000, 17,858 and 1,785,715 units, respectively, for a total of 1,833,573 units. The placement proceeds will be primarily used to complete a Feasibility Study, increasing the confidence of the Project, incorporating a Feasibility Level engineering design, and +/- 15% capital and operating costs. This in turn will be a key document as Condor seeks to secure project financing ahead of Project construction.