Pumping solutions are all about adding value through the right technical expertise and resources, including design, engineering and construction capability, according to Integrated Pump Technology general manager Jordan Marsh. “Customers don’t come to us for a pump-in-a-box; rather, they have a specific application that must be served, and are looking for a cost effective solution,” says Marsh. “Our experienced technical team and well-equipped workshop give us the capability to develop such solutions in-house.” The company has developed pump flotation devices (PFDs), for example, which are suitable for the range of Grindex submersible pumps. In another application, customers faced an issue with pumps being damaged underground by moving equipment; Integrated Pump Technology designed and produced fit-for-purpose protective cages for these units. RELATED:Mining pumps that bring true value and delivery excellence “For our large 90 kW pumps, we have even developed sturdy pump stands which allow them to sit above the slurry line and avoid sinking into mud,” he says. “We also have a trolley solution for submersible pumps that customers need to move often over rough terrain around their sites – allowing these to become easy plug-and-play units.” The experienced staff under the workshop manager includes qualified technicians and apprentices, with a qualified draughtsman drawing up the detailed plans for new innovations. The company’s recent move to new premises allowed the workshop facilities to be upgraded with a new sand blasting unit, stator dropper, spray booth and wash bay. “Integrated Pump Technology’s experience of the Grindex range since 2014 has given us plenty of insight into how we can enhance the application of these quality products,” he says. “By adding our engineering capability to these quality products, we have been able to generate valuable solutions for customers.” With the combined experience of management and staff running into many decades, customers can feel confident of finding a solution when bringing their specific challenge to Integrated Pump Technology, concludes Marsh.