All Star has advised that, further to the announcement on 21 April 2022 that the Company entered a HoA with Gathoni Muchai Investments, the company has successfully completed its due diligence over the Blesberg Lithium and Tantalum Project in South Africa and the Nkombwa Hill Tantalum, Rare Earth Elements and Phosphate Project in Zambia. The due diligence process included site visits, analyses of the technical aspects of the underlying deposits and their JORC and SAMREC compliant resources, reviews of historical mining and exploration activities, as well as an assessment of the associated local utilities, infrastructure, support, and workforce availability for the recommencement of mining operations. As a result of the successful completion of the Company’s due diligence on the Projects the terms of the Heads of Agreement become effective, and the Company is proceeding with its planned investment in the Projects. The key commercial terms of the Heads of Agreement are set out below: The Board believes that by securing an interest and investing in these Projects, they offer the potential to deliver positive returns to shareholders through a successful recommencement of mining and export operations. Jason Brewer, CEO, said: “As the Company continues its path of looking to deliver positive results to shareholders and following the announcement of the signing of HoA on 21 April 2022, we are pleased to announce the success of our due diligence programmes at both the Blesberg Lithium Project, and the Nkombwa Hill Project. Due diligence is an important aspect with respect to investment and acquisition and, having completed the process, we believe that these Projects should provide considerable value for the Company and its stakeholders. “As the world continues to focus on a more sustainable future, it has never been more important to secure a supply of battery metals, and at All Star, we are pleased to be a part of that process. “The completion of the due diligence programme will (subject to a further fundraise) result in the Company acquiring initial interests in the Projects following payment of the agreed fees and investment. This means we can now start to add real value to these promising assets. The Company already has exploration, development, and operating plans in the pipeline, and we look forward to sharing more on this with the market soon on these and other assets that we are progressing.”