While mining companies undergo major organisational transformation. The subject of women in mining continues to take the spotlight. As the month of June marks International Day of Women in Mining, International Women in Mining (IWiM) launched the anniversary with finesse. The campaign was launched during a 2-hour virtual event and was attended by over 1,000 participants from across the globe. Among participants weremining professionals from mining companies, suppliers and industry associations, academia and students in the area, as well as governments, unions, and civil societyrepresentatives. “It was amazing to see the industry come together in celebration of the achievements to date, and to build a community which will enhance practices and activities collectively. This campaign is an opportunity for individuals, companies andorganisations to collaborate and work on progressive initiatives that address the current requirements for more and better diversity, equity and inclusion in theindustry. We are looking forward to the campaign continuing its work throughout the year.” said IWiM Founder and Director, Barbara Dischinger. International Day for women in Mining #IDWIM2022 is the 1st step to recognizing the incredible work being done by women along the mining sector value chain.Are we having the right conversations that address the challenges being faced by these women? #IDWIM2022 #WeAreAWEIK pic.twitter.com/eaW0VBfx0X The event programme included inspiring keynotes from industry experts, interactive polls, competitions and actionable projects for the industry to get involved.Relevant first-time announcements made during IDWIM included Keynote speaker Rohitesh Dhawan, ICMM CEO who believes that “unless we walk the walk…the outcomes will not change substantially,” and announced for first time in a public forum “about the steps being taken to improve the outcomes of diversity, equity and inclusion, which is a critical challenge for us an industry to address.” Mining Indaba VIDEO: Is the mining industry doing enough to absorb women?This included an update to ICMM’s Mining Principles, which reinforces the integral role of DEI to sustainable development, the actions needed to eliminate all formsof harassment and unfair discrimination from our workplaces, proactive steps to achieve gender equality and the unencumbered participation of all peoples, andcementing the importance of psychological safety alongside physical health and safety in the ICMM’s efforts to achieve zero harm. IWiM launched a new webpage called “Respect at Work.” This initiative is a resource for survivors to anonymously share their stories of discrimination, bullying,racism, harassment and all forms of gender-based violence. IWiM believes this resource serves to raise awareness for everyone who works in the industry, regardless oftheir gender and how they self-identify. IDWIM sponsor Covergalls Workwear launched their new maternity wear line during the  celebration. Their maternity cargo pants and work shirts are speciallydesigned for every pregnancy stage, while also being high visibility and flame resistant. The campaign launch, celebrated under the theme #CelebrateWIM #CelebrateHer, saw women in mining (WIM) organisations, mining companies, industry organisations and individual women host an array of celebrations virtually and in-person to commemorate the day across the world.