B2Gold Corp. has announced additional positive exploration drilling results from Fekola North and the Anaconda area and provide an update on the development of the Anaconda area. B2Gold is currently conducting a 225,000-m drill program in western Mali with a 2022 exploration budget of $35 million, including drill programs on the Fekola North deposit to further test the underground potential, and the Anaconda area, including the Mamba, Adder, Anaconda, Cascabel, Viper and Cobra zones. To date in 2022, the Company has completed approximately 70,000 m of combined diamond, reverse circulation and aircore drilling on targets near the Fekola Mine, primarily targeting deep extensions of the Fekola deposit to the north and below the current reserve pit, and in the Anaconda Area, primarily on the Mamba, Adder and Cascabel zones), between 20 and 25 km north of the Fekola Mine. Fekola North exploration Drilling undertaken since December 2021 at the Fekola North deposit has partially infilled areas of the deepest portions of the current Mineral Resource area and tested beyond the limits of the current Mineral Resource pit in areas believed to be amenable to underground development. Drill holes such as FKD_641, which returned 4.28 g/t gold over 19.15 metres, from 529.0 m, and hole FKD_632 which returned 3.86 g/t gold over 9.73 m, from 502.14 m, intersect high grade sulphide mineralization in step outs beyond the limit of the current Mineral Resource pit and provide strong positive support to the ongoing evaluation of underground mining at Fekola. The Company has completed approximately 15,000 m of deep diamond drilling on the Fekola North deposit in 2022, with two drill rigs currently active. Anaconda area exploration On March 23, 2022, the Company announced an updated and significantly increased Mineral Resource estimate for the Anaconda area, comprised of the Menankoto permit and the Bantako North permit, located approximately 25 km from the Fekola Mine. The updated and significantly increased Anaconda Mineral Resource estimate, constrained within a conceptual pit shell at a gold price of $1,800 per oz, included an initial Indicated Mineral Resource estimate of 32,400,000 t at 1.08 g/t gold for a total 1,130,000 oz of gold, and Inferred Mineral Resource estimate of 63,700,000 tonnes at 1.12 g/t gold for 2,280,000 oz of gold. The Mineral Resource estimate included first time reporting of 1,130,000 oz of Indicated Mineral Resources and an increase of 1,510,000 oz of Inferred Mineral Resources since the initial Inferred Mineral Resource estimate in 2017. On the Mamba zone, drill hole BND_090, which returned 4.34 g/t gold over 5.6 m, from 130.1 m, and hole MSD_212, which returned 8.09 g/t gold over 15.8 m, from 431.10 m, are particularly significant as they confirm the continuity of high-grade sulphide mineralization 110 m below the limit of the updated Mineral Resource pit boundaries. In the main Anaconda area Mineral Resource pit, drill hole MSR_938, which returned 3.32 g/t gold over 10 m, from 92 m, and drill hole MSR_939, which returned 1.49 g/t gold over 50 m, from 71 metres, demonstrate the potential to add sulphide Mineral Resources beneath the currently defined saprolite resources, where the mineralization remains open at depth. Ongoing drilling by the Company on the Anaconda areas to infill and extend the saprolite Mineral Resource area and to follow up on the sulphide mineralization, including the Mamba and Adder zones, as well as several other targets below the saprolite mineralization, continues to generate positive drill results in both saprolite and sulphide domains and demonstrates strong potential to further increase the updated Anaconda area Mineral Resource estimate. 2022 Fekola and West Mali regional exploration For the remainder of 2022, the Company will continue to drill to infill and extend the saprolite Mineral Resource area and to follow up on the sulphide mineralization at the Anaconda area, including the Mamba and Adder zones, and several other targets below the saprolite mineralization. The good grade and width combinations at the Anaconda area continue to provide a strong indication of the potential for Fekola-style south plunging bodies of sulphide mineralization, which remain open down plunge. Six drill rigs are currently drilling in the Anaconda area. In April 2022, the Company acquired the Bakolobi permit in Mali from a local Malian company. The Bakolobi permit is located between the Menankoto permit, to the North, and the Fekola Mine’s Medinandi permit, wrapping around the latter to its south-west end, covering an area of 100 km2 and providing approximately 25 km of contiguous exploration potential along the Senegal-Mali Shear Zone. An initial $3.4 million exploration program on the Bakolobi permit is scheduled for the second half of 2022. Drilling will focus on the southward extension of known resources in the Anaconda area. The Company believes that the Bakolobi permit is a highly prospective area that has the potential to provide for the near-term addition of both saprolite- and sulphide-hosted gold deposits. B2Gold’s proposed acquisition of Oklo Resources Limited and its flagship Dandoko project, which remains subject to completion, will extend the footprint of B2Gold’s exploration in Mali to over 1,700 km2 and add the Dandoko project’s JORC 2012 compliant Measured and Indicated Mineral Resource estimate of 8.70 million tonnes at 1.88 g/t for 528,000 ounces of gold and an Inferred Mineral Resource estimate of 2.63 million tonnes at 1.67 g/t for 141,000 oz of gold, to B2Gold’s rapidly growing Mineral Resource inventory in the region. The Company believes there is strong potential to extend the mineralization at the Dandoko project. The Company also has one drill rig active on the Kolomba regional target, which is located approximately 15 km from the Anaconda area, with assay results pending. The Company also has one drill rig active on the Kolomba regional target, which is located approximately 15 km from the Anaconda area, with assay results pending. Anaconda Development Update In 2022, the Company has budgeted $33 million for development of infrastructure for Phase I saprolite mining at the Anaconda area, including road construction. Based on the updated Mineral Resource estimate and B2Gold’s preliminary planning, the Company has demonstrated that a pit situated on the Anaconda area could provide selective higher grade saprolite material to be trucked to and fed into the Fekola mill commencing as early as late 2022 at a rate of 1.5 Mtpa. Subject to obtaining all necessary permits and completion of a final development plan, the trucking of selective higher grade saprolite material to the Fekola mill would increase the ore processed and annual gold production from the Fekola mill, with the potential to add an average of approximately 80,000 to 100,000 oz per year to the Fekola mill’s annual gold production. The plan to truck the selective higher grade saprolite material is not included in the Company’s 2022 production guidance and the Anaconda area Mineral Resources have not been included in the current Fekola LoM plan. Based on the updated Mineral Resource estimate and the 2022 exploration drilling results, the Company has commenced a Phase II scoping study to review the project economics of constructing a stand-alone mill near the Anaconda area. Subject to receipt of a positive Phase II scoping study, the Company expects that the saprolite material would continue to be trucked to and fed into the Fekola mill during the construction period for the Anaconda area stand-alone mill. QA/QC on sample collection and assaying The primary laboratories for the Fekola Mine and West Mali regional exploration are SGS Laboratories in Bamako, Mali and Bureau Veritas Laboratories in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire. Periodically, exploration samples will be analyzed at the Fekola Mine laboratory. At each laboratory, samples are prepared and analyzed using 50-gram fire assay with atomic absorption finish and/or gravimetric finish. Umpire assays are used to monitor lab performance monthly. Quality assurance and quality control procedures include the systematic insertion of blanks, standards and duplicates into the core, reverse circulation and aircore drilling sample strings. The results of the control samples are evaluated on a regular basis with batches re-analyzed and/or resubmitted as needed. All results stated in this announcement have passed B2Gold’s quality assurance and quality control protocols.