Sibanye Stillwater says it intends to increase its shareholding in Keliber Oy (Keliber) to 50% plus 1 share. The company acquired an initial 30.29% shareholding in Keliber, on 23 February 2021, by way of a phased equity investment. Keliber is a Finnish mining and battery chemical company which owns the Keliber project, an advanced lithium hydroxide project located in the Kaustinen region of Finland which intends to sustainably produce battery grade lithium hydroxide utilising its own ore. Commenting on the proposed transactions Neal Froneman, CEO of Sibanye-Stillwater said “This is a further significant step in our strategy to build a unique global portfolio of green metals in a value accretive manner. We look forward to partnering with our Finnish stakeholders to build the Keliber project, which will be the first mining and metallurgical operation in Europe to deliver high quality, low-cost lithium hydroxide with a low carbon footprint and will be ideally placed to deliver critical metals into the growing European battery industry.” Sibanye-Stillwater to achieve majority shareholding in Keliber, and proposes to increase its shareholding further to 80%https://t.co/R2oKWgqOxF pic.twitter.com/oGqyldgYGq Simultaneous with the Pre-emptive Offer, the company says that it will also make a voluntary cash offer to minority shareholders of Keliber, other than the Finnish Minerals Group, which could initially increase its shareholding in Keliber to over 80%. The Finnish Minerals Group, a Finnish State-owned holding and development company whichmanages the State’s mining industry shareholdings, is the second largest shareholder in Keliber behind Sibanye-Stillwater with a current circa 20% shareholding. Subsequent to the Initial Investment, Keliber has completed a definitive feasibility study (“DFS”) which has confirmed the quality and inherent value of the Keliber project. This positive DFS is underpinned by a 31% increase in Mineral Reserves, as announced by Keliber on 15 September 2021. In addition, there has also been a significant improvementin the fundamental outlook for the lithium market. Read more articles about Lithium: Atlantic Lithium: Developing West Africa’s first lithium producing mine Keliber is aiming to be the first fully integrated lithium producer in Europe with full production of approximately 15,000 tonnes of lithium hydroxide per annum and direct market access to European markets from the Port of Kokkola where its fully permitted lithium chemical plant is based. Sibanye-Stillwater intends to implement the Pre-emptive Offer on 11 July 2022 following an Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) which is required to approve the issue of shares to Sibanye-Stillwater for both the Pre-emptive Offer and the Capital Raise. The maximum possible total cost of the Capital Raise to Sibanye-Stillwater is said to be around €104 million and will be dependent on the extent to which minorities accept the Voluntary Offer made by Sibanye-Stillwater and the extent to which minorities and the Finnish Minerals Group participate in the Capital Raise.