Reagents specialist Axis House, which celebrated two decades in business last year, was founded with the express aim of supplying mining chemicals to the DRC’s copper and cobalt mining industry. Since then, the company has diversified its operations geographically to such an extent that it now has a global footprint. Despite this expansion, the DRC remains the company’s key market, accounting for approximately 40% of its revenue, as MD JUSTINE STUBBS and technical manager BERNARD OOSTENDORP told Mining Review Africa contributor ARTHUR TASSELL in a recent interview. The company, which is headquartered in Johannesburg, was founded in October 2001 by Trevor McLean-Anderson, the current chairman, in partnership with Stubbs – and its first customer being Congolese state miner Gécamines. In those days, the DRC’s mining industry was in a parlous state, with copper production having fallen to well under 50 000 t a year, a figure dramatically short of the 400 to 500 000 t a year regularly recorded in the 1970s and 80s. Starting around 2005 the decline started to reverse as new mines opened in the country and historic operations were revived. The result was a steady increase in copper output. The 1 Mtpa production mark was passed in 2014 and 2 Mtpa is on the near-term horizon. “We’ve been very fortunate to have been in the DRC over this entire period of growth,” says Stubbs. “From the start we regarded the DRC as a market with huge potential and our faith in the country has been justified. It’s an extremely exciting environment in which to operate and the mining scene is ever evolving. RELATED:DRC Mining Week 2022 – it pumped like never beforeDRC industry resilient, but current challenges require closer engagementDRC mining poised for new era of complianceMining Indaba VIDEO: Commitment to DRC starts to reap rewards “The latest development, the Kamoa-Kakula copper project near Kolwezi, is particularly impressive and is an amazing success story for the DRC. Currently we service every copper and cobalt mining operation of any significance in the country, including Kamoa-Kakula.” Stubbs adds that Axis House has an excellent record of customer retention. “Some of our clients have been with us since our earliest days in the DRC, which is testimony to the quality of our products and the high level of service we provide. We believe in partnering with our customers and our track record in the DRC is proof of this commitment.” Stubbs makes the point that in its early days in the DRC, Axis House was primarily a supplier of commodity type mining chemicals (soda ash, NaHS, sodium metabisulphite, and Xanthates, to give just a few examples) with its main expertise being its logistics skills. “We entered the DRC because we saw an opportunity for a company that could provide mining chemicals to the country’s mining industry safely and securely with short lead times,” she explains. “We built up an excellent supply chain and positioned products close to our customers. This had the major advantage of allowing our clients to take stock off their own balance sheets, knowing that the chemicals they required would be readily available from Axis House.” She says that this focus on logistics alone began to change as the country’s copper-cobalt production started to increase significantly from year to year. “It became apparent that the country’s new and revived mines needed more than just a highly efficient supplier – they needed a supplier who could also work with them to provide tailormade chemicals, mainly reagents, to enhance the performance of their flotation plants and allow these facilities to deliver maximum yields. We accepted this challenge, and the rest is history. “We are now regarded as the leading specialised reagents supplier in Africa, and our technical expertise in formulating reagent suites specifically designed for each customer’s ore is highly regarded. We are known as a problem-solver.” While Axis House sources commodities from suppliers all over the world, its specialised formulations are manufactured on a toll basis by factories located mainly in South Africa but also overseas in countries such as China and India. “We have no in-house manufacturing facilities,” says Stubbs. “We prefer to leave the manufacturing of our products to specialist companies whom we work extremely closely with and regard as partners.” Underpinning Axis House’s technical offering is its flotation laboratory in Cape Town, established in 2007, where customer ores can be analysed, and reagents specially formulated to allow the ores to be floated in the most efficient manner possible. The facility has equipment to allow milling, flotation, sedimentation, leaching and precipitation tests to be conducted and is backed by a metallurgical laboratory in Sydney, Australia and an R&D laboratory in Melbourne, Australia, both owned by Axis House. The ore treatment processes used by customers at their operations can be exactly replicated in the laboratory and the effect of various reagent suites on yield accurately determined. The results generated by the laboratory can be further tested on site via pilot projects which can run in parallel with processing plant operations. The Cape Town facility is managed by Oostendorp, who has a BTech in Chemical Engineering and who worked for the Anglo American Group before joining Axis House in 2016 as Technical Manager. Highlighting the company’s technical strengths, he says the Cape Town laboratory represents just one part of what is in fact a wide-ranging technical service. “We have metallurgists and chemical engineers in all our offices around the world who stay constantly in touch with customers and who, in some cases, know the customers’ plants better than they do,” he says. “Typically, they are citizens of the country where they work, which allows any language or cultural barriers to be surmounted. In the DRC, for example, we have a large regional office in Lubumbashi, in the heart of the Central African Copperbelt, and a smaller one in Kolwezi, both manned by highly qualified staff with a real passion for achieving positive outcomes for customers. We don’t sell a reagent and walk away. It’s an on-going process of collaboration and partnership.” Describing Axis House’s product offering, Oostendorp says it includes an extensive range of flotation collectors for both oxide and sulphide material: “Essentially, we become involved once the ore hits the plant with our products optimising most parts of the mineral processing route,” he states. “Originally, we focused on the flotation process as this was the main requirement in the DRC but, more recently, we have also developed products for hydrometallurgical processing. “For example, we’ve developed a smoothing agent – known as ALC7G – that allows for higher quality cathode production at high current densities. We also have the VitriAx range of acid mist suppressants to effectively reduce the acid mist formed in the electrowinning process and Xtrax copper extractant for the selective extraction of copper in solvent extraction. “We are particularly noted for our expertise in copper and cobalt ores but also supply reagents that can be applied to polymetallic ores, gold and PGM ores, and industrial minerals, particularly phosphates. We now have reagents for the beneficiation of phosphate rock through to production of phosphoric acid. Our gold reagent range, 4 Gold, has been successfully trialled at a South African gold mine and has now been released to the wider market. We’re also well advanced with the development of a reagent suite for tin.” He adds that a particular emphasis in recent years has been the development of more environmentally friendly products. “To give one example, we’ve introduced a low hazard cyanide alternative for the gold leaching process which has proved to be very effective. We also have an alternative for cyanide as a zinc suppressant in lead-zinc separation.” While the DRC remains Axis House’s biggest single market, Zambia is also extremely important to the company, and it maintains an office in Chingola on the Zambian Copperbelt. It is also active in West Africa, North Africa, the Middle East (it has an office in Turkey), Europe (where it has recently completed contracts in Spain and Portugal), Australia and South America. All told, the company has around 100 employees worldwide. Commenting on the recent performance of the company, Stubbs says that, after a slowdown at the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, business has been brisk over the past 18 months as the prices of minerals have surged with mines upping their operations in response. “We are still suffering the effects of the global supply chain crisis which followed in the wake of the pandemic, but we have nevertheless been very successful in keeping our customers supplied with the chemicals they require.” Looking to the future, Stubbs says the company will continue its geographical diversification. “The Central African Copperbelt will continue to be hugely important to us but our activities in North Africa and the Middle East are growing strongly, and clearly have the potential to surpass our traditional markets. We see the growth minerals in these areas being phosphates in North Africa and polymetallics in Turkey. Our current reagent ranges for treating these ores are already proving successful in the market,” she concludes.