Looking back over two decades of mining, the sector is shedding its reputation as a slow adopter of technology – certainly from the viewpoint of blasting, according to RALF HENNECKE, MD of Omnia Group company BME. The use of emulsion explosives, for example, was a significant advance in mine blasting safety and performance,” starts Hennecke. “Having become well established among opencast mines, we supplied emulsions underground for the first time in South Africa more than 20 years ago – marking another important step in mining’s evolution.” BME pioneered the use of cold emulsions in the local market in the mid-1980s and used this chemical breakthrough to leverage a range of mechanical, electronic, and digital innovations that have redefined the blasting landscape for mines. The move away from packaged explosives to pumpable products went together with developments in mechanised, trackless mining and beyond. Safety “A key issue, of course, was safety – where emulsions made it much safer to transport and store an inert product that was only activated in the blasthole,” Hennecke explains. “It also meant that shaft-time could be optimised by using emulsions, as the whole shaft area did not have to be cleared before Class 1 explosives could be moved – as is the case with packaged product.” In the two decades since emulsions began being used underground, mining efficiencies have been enhanced by a range of other technological developments. These include the tools to initiate underground blasts safely from a surface control room. “As electronic systems developed, mines could also be given the ability to closely monitor the pre-blast and post-blast process. This provided increasing volumes of data to improve decision-making and blast quality, with more and more safety features to support mine’s commitment to zero harm,” Hennecke adds. The use of a safe and pumpable product also opened the door to the concept of a vertical emulsion pipeline, direct from surface to the underground workings. This revolutionary idea was brought to fruition more than five years ago in South Africa at a gold mine east of Johannesburg. The system allowed for the bulk transportation of non-sensitised base emulsion explosives from surface to the workings over 318 m underground, freeing up valuable shaft time. Electronic detonators Another vital aspect of mining’s evolution over this period has been the rapid and large-scale shift to electronic detonators and away from non-electric versions. Hennecke highlights that the conversion rate from non-electric to electronic detonators has been particularly pronounced over the past 10 to 15 years – initially in the opencast arena but more recently in underground mining too. “The factors behind this trend are all about precision, accuracy and quality blasting – as part of mining’s efforts to continuously improve productivity and efficiency,” he says. “A central strategy here has been a progression towards smart mining, where processes are carefully monitored, more data is collected, and more effort is directed at properly analysing this data.” Digitisation technologies have been a core element of progress on this front, drawing in every field involved in the mining supply chain. In the blasting field, this began early with software-based blast design, evolving to include real-time reporting, data mining and the quest to achieve predictability before every blast. “These technological advances have accelerated their contribution to mining more than ever over the past decade. “There has recently been more take-up in the underground environment, as connectivity capabilities have improved spurring the wider application of these innovations,” Hennecke states. Previously, the take-up of these systems had been faster in opencast mines, as connectivity above surface was less problematic. This had led to digital progress in these mines leading the way for many years. Corporate landscape Hennecke notes that the last 20 years have also seen a considerable shake-up in South Africa’s mining sector – with the effective unbundling of the large local mining houses and the rise of new, smaller players. This continues today, especially in the coal sector, with many major companies pulling out of fossil fuel commodities and selling their assets to emerging local firms. “This aspect of mining’s evolution demands a high level of flexibility from the value chain, as supply companies need to establish new relationships and ensure they can meet new customer requirements,” Hennecke adds. “It also gives suppliers the opportunity to serve more customers, if your systems have the capability and adaptability.” By the same token, there has also been considerable consolidation within the sector, especially in the gold segment. Strong relationships once again play a key role for suppliers, as these then multiply into opportunities within operations that are acquired by existing customers. “For companies like BME, who have been around for almost 40 years, success relies on a reputation built up over time among very different customer segments,” he explains. “While we’ve developed capacity, product and expertise to service large operations, we are also known for our ability to support small miners.” This is made possible by developing a better understanding of the specific needs of smaller operations. As more of these mines have begun operating in the same mining region, BME has even been able to further improve and streamline the way it services them – ensuring that its infrastructure is well deployed and shared among smaller mines. “As the mining industry has diversified by size, especially in certain commodities, the service sector has had to respond with more tailored offerings while maintaining its commercial viability,” Hennecke states. “This has placed BME in a strong position, as this is a strategy we have been successfully applying for a very long time – suiting our approach to a fast-changing industry.” Sustainability Another important feature of mining’s evolution has been the accelerating drive towards more sustainable operations. The smart mine of the future looks to be more energy efficient and carbon neutral, for instance, and mines are looking to their supply partners to be part of this journey, he says. In the past five years in particular, mines have wanted to know more about their suppliers’ technology pipeline and trajectory – as an indicator of improved performance. “For BME, our contribution to sustainability ranges from safely disposing of used oil in our emulsion product, to our digital solutions that continuously improve the quality of blasting. “With our Blast Alliance technology suite, the blasting cycle is optimised to save energy and boost productivity – for a lower carbon future,” Hennecke concludes.