B2Gold, which is headquartered in Vancouver, Canada, commissioned a 30 MW solar plant at its Fekola open pit mine in Mali in 2021. Costing US$38 million, it is one of the largest installations of its type at an African mine and builds on the experience gained when B2Gold constructed a much smaller (7 MW) solar plant at its Otjikoto mine in Namibia in 2017/18. It is expected to allow up to 75% of Fekola’s electricity demand to be covered by renewable energy during the daytime. Hybrid projects such as this, which combine solar energy with conventional energy generation and battery storage, are an effective way to provide reliable power supply in off-grid areas, and – based on present trends – will soon be a common site on African mines as mine owners look to cut costs while also making their operations more environment friendly. In the case of Fekola, the new plant integrates with the mine’s existing 64 MW of HFO and diesel generating capacity. The Fekola project was approved in July 2019, following completion of preliminary studies by Suntrace and BayWa r.e, with the two companies then taking the project into implementation in conjunction with B2Gold. Delays to the construction were experienced due to the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as a fire in January 2021 in the solar storage yard which destroyed approximately 25% of the solar panels for the project. Notwithstanding these setbacks, the plant is now fully complete, with initial solar production to date suggesting that it will exceed initial power production estimates. Like most mines, Fekola operates around the clock. During the day, the solar plant allows three out of six heavy fuel oil (HFO) generators to be shut down and can also reduce demand on the other three significantly. A 15.4 MWh battery storage system forms part of the overall installation and compensates for fluctuations in energy generation. It has a discharge capacity of 17.3 MW. The solar plant will allow a saving of 13.1 million litres of HFO annually and will cut the mine’s CO2 emissions by roughly 20% (or 30 000 t) a year. Commenting on the project, Thorsten Althaus, project manager at BayWa r.e., said that integrating such a large amount of solar into a small, isolated grid safely and reliably had been a major technical challenge which required the use of battery storage as well as a tailor-made control system. “It is extremely rewarding to see how well this solution performs in reality and shows that the technology works and is just waiting to be applied on further projects,” he added. Fekola, one of several gold mines operated by B2Gold globally, was commissioned in 2017 and has since emerged as one of Africa’s biggest gold mines, achieving a record production of 622 000 oz in 2020. A mill expansion was recently completed, taking capacity up to 7.5 Mtpa. The mine is a major contributor to the Malian economy and has thus far generated approximately US$580 million in revenues for the country. The Fekola power project also demonstrates the success that can be achieved in implementing such technological advances in more remote parts of Africa.