“I spend much of my time working on the payroll. Knowing how to calculate employees’ overtime, calculate salaries on Sage 300 (the system we use to pay employees) how to calculate employee back pay and how to solve their problems has been extremely interesting to learn,” explains, ZAC Human Resources (HR) Intern Ayanda Mkhize (26), who is from Ulundi. She holds a National Diploma in HR and started working at ZAC in November 2020. Ayanda says she has learned the different aspects of Payroll, this includes: the issuing of access cards for employees, how to load the employees on the X-time Time Management System. “I’ve learned to unblock an employee who was previously retrenched and put them back into the system, how to put employees in a correct shift, how to load standby, how to load leave onto the payroll system Sage ESS System, how to approve their leaves, how to check if they have sufficient leave and also to verify if employees have clocked in and out correctly.” RELATED:Community Forum key to social cohesionSipho ensures that ZAC is in safe handsZAC service provider SGS Labs presents KZN learners with uniforms Ayanda further explains that if the person didn’t clock out, then she knows now how to fix this by correcting it in the system. I’ve also learned how to clear an escalation and check if an employee’s overtime hasn’t been approved. “I’ve learned a lot from Payroll Administrator Promise Ngcobo and Group Payroll Manager Schalk Beetge, who have mentored and guided me throughout. The work environment is a stimulating environment and the people are very friendly.” Ayanda notes that ZAC has several payroll systems which are used for several different functionalities, such as loading employees onto the system, time and attendance, applying for leave, among others. “I want to take all the knowledge I have gained here and take it forward to become an HR/payroll specialist in future,” Ayanda concludes. U-Ayanda useyazishibilikela kwezokuholela izisebenzi “Isikhathi sami esiningi ngisebenza ibhuku loholela abasebenzi. Kube mnandi kakhulu ukufunda ukubala ama-overtime abasebenzi nemiholo yabo kuSage 300 (uhlelo olusetshenziswa ukuholela abasebenzi), imali abakweletwa yona yinkampani nokuxazulula izinkinga ababhekana nazo,” kusho uNksz u-Ayanda Mkhize (26) oyithwasa ehhovisi lezabasebenzi, odabuka Olundi. Uneziqu zeNational Diploma in HR kanti uqale ukusebenza eZAC ngo Mfumfu wezi-2020. UNksz Mkhize uthi ufunde izinto eziningi nge-payroll okubalwa kuzo: amakhadi emvume abasebenzi, ukubhalisa abasebenzi kwiX-time Time Management System. “Ngifunde ukuvuselela ubulungu bomsebenzi okade ediliziwe, ngimbuyise ohlwini, ukufaka abasebenzi kuma-shift afanele, ukubhalisa abacuphele ukungena, ukubhalisa amalivu abasebenzi kuSage ESS System, ukuvuma izicelo zamalivu, ukubheka ukuthi abasebenzi banamalivu anele, nokubheka ukuthi abasebenzi baqopha ngendlela efanele izikhathi zokungena nezokuphuma kwabo emsebenzini.” “Ngifunde okuningi kuPromise Ngcobo oyiPayroll Administrator nakuSchalk Beetge oyiGroup Payroll Manager abebengiqeqesha bengicathulisa. Indawo yokusebenzela inika umdlandla kanti abasebenzi banomoya omuhle.” UNksz Mkhize uthi iZAC inezinhlelo eziningi ze-payroll ezisetshenziselwa izinto ezehlukene njengokubhalisa abasebenzi, izikhathi nezibalo zabeza emsebenzini, izicelo zamalivu, njalo-njalo. “Ngifisa ukuthatha ulwazi engiluthole lapha ekhaya ngilusebenzise ukuze ngibe yingcweti yakwandabazabantu ngomuso,” kuphetha uNksz Mkhize.