The COVID-19 pandemic panic is in it’s final throes. It’s no longer a dominating fear of our everyday lives. It’s commonly accepted that everyone will contract, or has already contracted, the SARS-CoV-2 virus. Its legacy is now permanently banked as endemic. However, South African National State of Disaster has been extended to 15 April 2022. This was announced by Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Minister Nkosazana Dlamini Zuma in a notice published in the Government Gazette. This comes as the state of disaster was scheduled to end on Tuesday, 15 March, following promises from Cabinet last month that this would be the “final extension”. The move was sharply criticized by the dean of the faculty of health sciences and professor of vaccinology at the University of the Witwatersrand, Shabir Madhi, who said the decision was “indicative of the NCCC being devoid of any understanding of the pandemic”. As the omnipresent and suppressive mood created through its government – South Africa has this week, been told the nation’s State of Emergency has once again been extended. This has not been well-received. Whether it’s cognisant of the fact or not the Covid Command Council has absolutely adopted and enforced the principle of what I call: Pandemic Panopticon Psychology. The panopticon is a disciplinary concept brought to life in the form of a central observation tower placed within a circle of prison cells. From the tower, a guard can see every cell and inmate, but the inmates can’t see into the tower. Prisoners will never know whether they are being watched. The two of years of undulating lockdown levels are practically researched through this concept. English philosopher Jeremy Bentham believed that power should be visible and unverifiable. Through constant surveillance, Bentham believed all groups of society could be altered. And indeed, we have been. If you disagree with the higher levels of societal psychology and the theory of folie à deux scenarios we can break it down to a personal level. The Ethics Centre explains: “Think of the last time you were at work and your boss walked in the room. Did you straighten up and work harder in their presence? Now imagine they were always in the room. They wouldn’t be watching you all the time, but you’d know they were there. This is the power of constant surveillance – and the power of the panopticon.” French philosopher, Michel Foucault, was an outspoken critic of the panopticon. He argued the panopticon’s goal is to induce a state of conscious visibility. This assures the automatic functioning of power. To him the Panopticon concept is a “cruel, ingenious cage”. Foucault also compared the scenario to a medieval village under quarantine. To stamp out the plague, officials would strictly separate everyone and patrol the streets to ensure villagers don’t leave their homes and become sick. If villagers are caught outside, the punishment would be death, or for current context being a criminal (as per South Africa’s COVID-19 Command Council ruling). On the other hand, Bentham highlights the panopticon’s power as being a “new mode of obtaining mind over mind” stating that by discarding isolation within a blockade, the discipline becomes a self-propagating mental mechanism through visibility. I conclude this article with a common statement we so often hear: Viva Foucault. Viva!