Sandfire Resources has announced the appointment of Independent Non-Executive Director John Richards as Non-Executive Chair, effective from 30 April 2022. Richards succeeds Derek La Ferla, who has served as the Non-Executive Chairman of Sandfire since 17 May 2010. La Ferla advised his intention to retire from the Board at the Company’s 2021 Annual General Meeting and will remain as a Non-executive Director during 2022 as the Board continues the succession program and further builds skills and capability at Board level. Commenting on his decision to retire, La Ferla said: ‘I would like to express my sincere gratitude and appreciation for the opportunity to chair this wonderful company over the past decade. ‘I am extremely proud of Sandfire’s achievements during this first era of growth – from the discovery, development and successful operation of DeGrussa, through to our critical international growth steps into North America, Southern Africa and, now Europe. ‘I am particularly pleased with the strong culture, governance and systems that we have built during the period and the robust ESG framework which is in place, and which I believe will stand Sandfire in excellent stead for its next growth chapter. ‘I would like to thank my fellow Directors, and particularly our Managing Director Karl Simich, the senior leadership team, staff and our shareholders for their support. I have no doubt that Sandfire is now well established on a growth trajectory that will see it become one of world’s leading suppliers of critical metals in the years ahead.’ Richards was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of Sandfire in January 2021. An economist with more than 35 years’ experience in the resources industry, Mr Richards has held strategy and business development positions across several mining companies and has worked extensively in the investment banking and private equity industries. He has been involved in a wide range of significant mining M&A transactions on a global scale. Richards is also a Non-Executive Director of leading gold producer Northern Star Resources and mineral sands company Sheffield Resources. Commenting on his appointment as Non-Executive Chair, Richards said: “It is an honour to succeed Derek as Sandfire’s Chair. Under Karl’s leadership and Derek’s guidance, Sandfire is emerging as a globally significant producer of future-facing metals. The other Non-Executive Directors and I look forward to working with Karl and the Sandfire management team to support them as they build on this base and generate sustainable rewards for our shareholders into the future. We also take this opportunity to thank Derek for his many years of service and look forward to his ongoing support over the coming months. We wish him well in his future endeavours.”