Jubilee has announced its unaudited interim results for the six months ended 31 December 2021. The results follow the operational update released on 8 February 2022. Leon Coetzer, CEO of Jubilee, commented: “The first half of the financial year saw the Group ramp-up our investment into both our South African and Zambian operations. “In South Africa we completed the new fully integrated Inyoni chrome and PGM operations to deliver not only a facility able to process a variety of sourced feed materials, fully attributable to us, but also reducing Jubilee’s reliance on its Windsor JV agreement to produce its declared PGM ounces. “The transformed Inyoni Facility is a state-of-the-art plant that is uniquely able to process a wide variety of chrome and PGM containing ores. It means that we are now able to enter into contracts with multiple suppliers of feedstock, from tailings to mine production, and process it all through the same facility while also making us a very significant player in the chrome market. “This in turn reduces the risks associated with a single major contract, but also allows us to pursue lucrative opportunities that we were not able to before. Most importantly, this facility makes Jubilee a very efficient metal production company globally, including benefits from elements like water usage, to higher efficiency of grinding, far outperforming conventional mining on a number of metrics. “The benefits from the completion of our Inyoni Facility have been seen already and the second half of the financial year has started strongly with monthly production levels being reflective of the new facility as it reaches full design capacity. “In Zambia, Project Roan’s integrated copper concentrator nears completion with early commissioning activities underway at the time of writing and the ramp-up of production set to commence during May. “The Roan concentrator will have the ability to produce an additional 10 000 tonnes of copper units annually which will be refined at the Sable Refinery, delivering the fully integrated Southern Copper Refining Strategy as we move our project focus to the Northern Refining Strategy. “Project Lechwe, which forms the first link in the integrated Northern Refining Strategy,is the Company’s second planned copper processing facility in Zambia and final pilot runs are under way to confirm the design work. Project Lechwe targets to reach the production of 7 500 copper units per annum by the second quarter of calendar 2023. “The Northern Refining Strategy currently targets the production of an additional 15 000 tonnes of copper but offers the potential to be significantly expanded based on the sheer size of opportunities offered in copper and cobalt recovery from waste in Zambia. Jubilee’s recognised brand in process excellence together with its in-country track record, places the Company in a commanding position to capitalise on these opportunities. “Given these successes, in December we were also able to reveal plans for the roll-out of a global expansion strategy going into 2022. In developing this global strategy, Jubilee will seek to leverage the unique and proven intellectual capital it has developed over the past 10 years and from which it has already created two successful metal recovery businesses, to deploy its metal processing expertise in other jurisdictions and grow internationally. “With our strong balance sheet, including a healthy cash position, able to facilitate our growth, I firmly believe that our ability to process ore from multiple sources through a single, centralised processing unit, while at the same time cleaning up historical environmental mine tailings liabilities to the benefit of all stakeholders, will both create opportunities and give Jubilee a competitive advantage as it pursues further international opportunities. “With our global metals processing strategy in mind, and with a strong balance sheet position, we are confident that any future bank and structured funding can be secured on substantially better terms to advance our Zambian Copper Strategy and growth. “This interim period has been one of the most significant to date for Jubilee, and with the newly constructed and commissioned fully integrated Inyoni Facility now fully operational, we have a tremendous platform for future growth which firmly demonstrates the skills and expertise that your company has as we continue to broaden operations. The recent conversion to equity of all historical debt is another reinforcement of the success of our strategy in Zambia too, and we are excited for our processing facilities there to come on line in the coming weeks and to continue the roll out of our global metals processing strategy over the year ahead.” The period under review marks a period of significant investment, with of £35 million having been invested into both the South African and Zambian operations as the Company lays the foundation for sustained growth in South Africa while rapidly nearing the completion of its Southern Copper Refining Strategy in Zambia, targeted to deliver more than 10 000 tonnes of copper per annum. The period review included the completion of the construction of the Company’s now fully integrated, world-class, Inyoni chrome and PGM facility in South Africa during November 2021 and ramping up of the upgraded facility to reach full production during December 2021. In addition, the Group continued to further deliver on its Southern Copper Refining Strategy in Zambia with increased interim copper production and the new Roan copper concentrator entering its commissioning phase post the period under review, expected to fully ramp up its production during May 2022. H2 CY2021 results are compared with the period for the six months ended 31 December 2020. All amounts in this announcement are converted at average conversion rates for the period for income statement purposes and at the period end spot rate for balance sheet purposes, unless stated otherwise. Highlights Period under review It also increases the Inyoni PGM production potential capacity to the equivalent of 44 000 PGM ounces per annum, offsetting any short-term production loss linked to the construction phase during the period, with the potential of sustained long-term growth Post the period under review