Kumba Iron Ore, a business unit of Anglo American, is proceeding with the long-talked-about Ultra High Dense Media Separation (UHDMS) project at its Sishen mine in the Northern Cape. The 3.6 billion project, which was approved in February 2021, is scheduled for commissioning in the second half of 2023. Kumba recently reported that the project was on course, with detailed design and early procurement of long-lead items in progress and site establishment to start shortly. Around 500 jobs are expected to be created during the construction phase. Sishen already has experience of UHDMS technology – whose development owes much to Exxaro – as it commissioned a modular 50 tph UHDMS plant at Sishen in 2013 to assess the commercial feasibility of separating ore at operating densities above 4.2 g/cm3. Two more plants have since been built, one at Sishen and the other at Kolomela. The plants at Sishen reprocess jig discard material while the plant at Kolomela treats low-grade material. UHDMS, which makes use a specialised ferrosilicon (FeSi) to prepare a dense medium to separate iron ore from waste, will have huge benefits for Sishen, effectively increasing reserves by 131 Mt (by lowering the cut-off grade) and reducing the life of mine strip ratio from 3.8 to 3.1. It will allow Kumba to increase the product grade and earn an additional US$1/t product premium from 2024. The life of mine will also be extended by several years to 2039. The project is expected to deliver an after-tax internal rate of return of approximately 30% and an EBITDA margin of approximately 40% with a payback period of around three years. The extension of the life of mine is critically important for Kumba. Sishen, which started operations in the 1950s, is its flagship operation and in 2020 accounted for approximately 25 Mt of its 37 Mt of iron ore production, the balance all coming from Kolomela. Each year that can be added to the mine’s life is a huge plus, not just for Kumba but to the communities around Sishen. It is estimated that over half the people in the Kathu area, where Sishen is situated, are dependent, either directly or indirectly, on the mine for their livelihoods. The UHDMS is one of several initiatives that Kumba has underway to sustain or extend the life of its Northern Cape operations. These include the R7 billion Kaapstevel South project at Kolomela, which was approved in 2020 and which will sustain the mine’s production at around 13 Mtpa, and a focused exploration programme to identify fresh ore resources. The technology may not be new considering it has been in pilot phase for the last eight years, but this has been sufficient time for Kumba Iron Ore to comfortably understand the technology and to feel confident that it is able to significantly upscale this. The market has been quietly waiting for the go-ahead of this project, one that was first announced several years ago. It is truly a game changer for the company and the mine and enables Sishen to remain on the iron ore map as one of the world’s best iron ore producers.