The decision to initiate several key activities follows the formation of the joint venture company, Nyati Mineral Sands, which will hold all Strandline’s Tanzanian mineral sands assets, including but not limited to the advanced Fungoni and Tajiri projects. Since signing the pivotal joint venture Framework Agreement (FWA) between Strandline and the Government of the Republic of Tanzania in December 2021, Strandline has worked with local government authorities and project stakeholders to achieve the Fungoni project “cut-off” approval for the land access process. This key endorsement highlights the continued strong support for the development of Fungoni. RELATED:Strandline secures environmental approval for Tajiri In parallel, the company has started updating the Fungoni project financial evaluation. This review will incorporate the latest financial information on the project, including updated mineral sands price forecasts, which have increased substantially in recent years. Strandline previously announced that it signed a US$26 million Project Finance Facility Agreement with Nedbank CIB for the development of Fungoni, accounting for a significant portion of Fungoni’s US$35 million capital requirement. The Nedbank facility is also under review and will be subject to updating due diligence and credit approvals. Product offtake and investment discussions have also been re-initiated by Strandline-Nyati, with significant demand received from existing and potential new offtake partners. As part of establishing Nyati, two additional senior Tanzanians have been appointed as Directors to Nyati, Heri Issa Gombera and Ben Usaje. Usage, former Commissioner for Customs and Excise, has significant knowledge of the product and materials logistics and the Tanzanian Revenue Authority. As a qualified Mineral Processing Engineer, Gombera currently works at the Geological Survey of Tanzania and has been previously recognised with an award by the President of the United Republic of Tanzania for his contribution to the Tanzanian Mining sector. Working with Usage and Gombera, the Board has been active in setting strategic priorities to advance its project development plans and finalise the administrative establishment of Nyati. Strandline owns 84% of Nyati, with the Government holding a 16% non-dilutable free carried interest. Strandline Managing Director Luke Graham said preparations for development of Fungoni were now accelerating on several fronts. “The establishment of Nyati has paved the way for us to ramp up a host of project development work,” Graham said. “We have been very pleased by the strong interest in Fungoni and Tajiri’s offtake and the associated expressions of interest in project specific funding. Given the substantial increases in mineral sands prices and the positive encouragement and support we are receiving from the Tanzanian Government, we look forward to advancing Nyati’s projects and capitalising on the great opportunity which now awaits us.”