The Essakane gold mine, located in north-eastern Burkina Faso, is one of the country’s biggest gold producers and produced 364 000 oz in 2020 (which could rise to as much as 400 000 oz in 2021). It also has excellent ESG credentials, reflecting the fact that its parent, IAMGOLD, operates in accordance with international best practice and has been ranked as one of Canada’s Top 50 corporate citizens. Essakane received a major accolade recently when IAMGOLD won the 2021 TSM (Towards Sustainable Mining) Environmental Excellence Award from the Mining Association of Canada (MAC) for an innovative recycling programme at the mine. The recycling project dates to 2010 when Essakane recognised the need to enhance its plastic waste management given that the region lacked a recycling facility, forcing the mine to bury large quantities of plastic on site. To solve the problem, the mine decided to partner with a local entrepreneur to manage the plastic waste. By working with a new recycling company, Essakane was able to avoid burying plastic while also supporting local businesses and creating permanent jobs for community members. This project is entirely led by the local community, but also can be easily replicated in surrounding areas, resulting in a significant positive impact for the region that extends far beyond IAMGOLD’s operations. The recycling company shreds the different types of plastics and then bags the resulting granules in reusable bags to be resold. A major plus to emerge from the project is that the innovative plastic shredding unit can be replicated in any location, remote or urban, where there is a problem related to the recycling of plastic sheeting. According to MAC, over 65 tons of plastics that had previously been stored on the mine site have been recycled since inception of the scheme. It describes this as “a massive achievement in reducing the mine’s environmental footprint that has inspired local community members to set up businesses to recycle other types of waste, all of which will undoubtedly have a far reaching and positive impact.” The globally recognised TSM programme supports mining companies in managing key environmental and social risks. Through TSM, eight critical aspects of social and environmental performance are evaluated, independently validated, and publicly reported against 30 distinct performance indicators. This latest award is not a ‘flash in the pan’ for IAMGOLD as it is the third TSM award to be earned by the company for Essakane. In 2018 the company received the TSM Community Engagement Excellence Award and in 2019 the TSM Environmental Excellence Award. The 2018 award was for a peanut butter production unit run by a group of 11 local women, with the funding being generated by an initiative which sees the proceeds from the sale of scrap metal by the mine being used to support community business ventures. The 2019 award was for the Essakane hybrid solar / thermal plant, which at that point was the biggest installation of its type at an African mine.