Diamond company De Beers, and National Geographic have launched a strategic partnership – Okavango Eternal – to address one of the most critical conservation challenges in Africa: protecting the source waters of the Okavango Delta in Botswana and the lives and livelihoods they support. A freshwater oasis in the middle of the Kalahari Desert, the Okavango Delta is one of the most biodiverse areas in Africa and a magnet for tourists from around the world. While it holds protected status, the wider Okavango Basin in Botswana, Angola, and Namibia that feeds the Delta does not. Since 2015, the National Geographic Okavango Wilderness Project has been working to secure permanent, sustainable protection for the Okavango Basin. As a result of the new partnership, National Geographic has now been joined by De Beers to help secure protection for the Okavango Delta’s headwaters. Over the course of five years, De Beers will work together with National Geographic by providing support, expertise, and funding to expand and accelerate work already underway, helping to establish sustainable local livelihoods for 10 000 people in harmony with the Okavango Basin’s conservation. The partnership will focus on protecting the natural world and supporting communities across Botswana, Namibia, and Angola. Among other things, the partnership will look at ways of providing long-term wildlife corridors for the movement and proliferation of endangered species. It will also support critical conservation research by funding expeditions to gather new data, installing monitoring technology and building the capacity of local researchers through grants and training. “There is no doubt that the Okavango River Basin is under threat. How we treat this delicate ecosystem in the coming years will dictate its vitality — for its people and its wildlife — for future generations. “This is our last chance to help protect this natural wonder and we are pleased to partner with De Beers on this critically important project,” says Dr Steve Boyes, National Geographic explorer and leader of the National Geographic Okavango Wilderness Project. Bruce Cleaver, CEO, De Beers Group, describes the partnership with National Geographic as vital. “By sharing our expertise and resources and working with local communities, governments and other NGO partners, we will deliver a positive impact that is far greater than what any of us could achieve on our own, and ultimately protects the natural world and improves people’s lives.” De Beers has an excellent record in environmental stewardship in southern Africa, managing around half a million acres of land for conservation across the region, with perhaps the jewel in its conservation crown being the 32 000 ha Venetia Limpopo Nature Reserve surrounding the Venetia diamond mine in South Africa. In 2018, working in partnership with Peace Parks Foundation, it began the longest elephant translocation ever attempted – with the aim of moving 200 elephants in the reserve over a distance of 1 700 km to a new home in Mozambique.