Atlantic Lithium, the fully funded, African-focussed lithium exploration and development company on track to become West Africa’s first lithium producing mine, announces that it is intended that Chief Operating Officer, Len Kolff, will be appointed to the Board of Directors and also as the Company’s CEO, on an interim basis, subject to the completion of normal regulatory due diligence. Len, who has been with Atlantic Lithium for seven years, serving as COO since September 2018, has been instrumental in the discovery and evaluation of the Company’s industry-leading Ewoyaa lithium project in Ghana. The Board reaffirms its view that it considers Ewoyaa to be among one of the world’s most promising spodumene projects. Len’s technical and in-country experience has, and will be, integral to both the Company’s journey, and the late Vincent Mascolo’s vision, to help accelerate West Africa’s transition to a sustainable future. Len has over 25 years’ mining industry experience in design, implementation and execution of exploration, resource evaluation, project studies and appraisals for the major and junior resource sector, across a wide variety of jurisdictions, with a particular focus on Africa. Prior to joining the Company, he was part of the discovery and evaluation of the Mofe Creek iron ore project in Liberia with Tawana Resources. Len also worked at Rio Tinto for 16 years, where he was involved in several high-profile projects including the Simandou iron ore project in Guinea, and the Northparkes Copper-Gold mine in Australia. He holds a Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree from the Royal School of Mines, Imperial College, London and a Masters of Economic Geology from CODES, University of Tasmania. Commenting, Chairperson Neil Herbert said: “As Atlantic Lithium works towards developing West Africa’s first lithium mine, we are delighted to be appointing Len to the role of interim CEO. Len has the knowledge, relationships and expertise to manage seamlessly across all key workstreams to ensure continuity in our operations going forward.”