Newcore Gold has announced two new gold discoveries from the 90,000 metre drill program underway at the Company’s 100% owned Enchi Gold Project in Ghana. First pass RC drilling on two grassroots targets, Tokosea and Sewum South, intersected shallow oxide gold mineralization demonstrating the strong potential to delineate additional resource areas across the 216 km2 property. Drilling at Tokosea intersected shallow high-grade oxide gold mineralization grading 3.52 grams per tonne gold over 9.0 metres from 74 m, including 7.36 g/t Au over 4.0 m from 77 m. Drilling at Sewum South intersected 0.95 g/t Au over 15.0 m from 25 m, including 2.31 g/t Au over 5.0 m from 25 m. Greg Smith, VP Exploration of Newcore states: “We are thrilled with the success of inaugural drilling on some of the largest gold anomalies we have identified at Enchi. Both drilling at Tokosea and Sewum South, two prospective early-stage targets on the property, have identified several new areas of gold mineralization with strong results in both near surface oxide and sulphide mineralization. “This first pass drilling tested gold mineralization to an average vertical depth of only 75 metres and identified a number of mineralized zones with higher-grade core structures with further potential from follow-on drilling along strike and at depth. “We have only just scratched the surface of the gold potential at Enchi. The 90,000 metre drill program underway continues to prove out the significant multi-million ounce potential across this district scale property.” Luke Alexander, President and CEO of Newcore stated: “These two new discoveries along with recent results from a parallel structure at Sewum extension accomplish our stated goal of making new greenfield discoveries as part of our multi-pronged exploration approach. “These new discoveries complement prior drill results which outlined near surface resource expansion potential along strike at all four of our existing deposits, strong results from drilling at three previously drilled areas, and high-grade intercepts at depth which have outlined the potential for underground resources. “These new discoveries are a real testament to our geological team’s understanding of the structures at our Enchi Gold Project. We will continue to systematically approach the exploration across the Project with the goal of creating value for all our stakeholders.”