Situated 11 kilometers south-west of its flagship asset, the AfriTin Mining company has discovered spodumene, a lithium-bearing mineral within its fully permitted mining license ML 129. The African tech-metals mining company bears a portfolio of mining and exploration assets in Namibia. CEO Anthony Viljoen commented “I am delighted by this new discovery, which reaffirms our development goals and supports the overall strategy of building a diverse portfolio of technology metals.” The discovery of spodumene, the primary mineral used in the production of lithium-ion batteries, was achieved under the company’s regional exploration programme over historical mine workings and greenfield opportunities in central Namibia. The Company intends to conduct an exploration drilling programme on this target during 2022, with the aim of adding to its existing lithium resource at Uis. Technical and chemical lithium markets may find interest from these sources, the latter finding application in lithium-ion batteries. The mineralised pegmatites have a combined strike length of approximately 2 km and occur within the adjacent fully permitted mining licence, ML 129. They occur near an existing arterial road and fall within the operational limits of the Uis Tin Mine. The presence of spodumene within the pegmatites was confirmed through laboratory X-Ray diffraction analysis of surface grab samples. Four of the five samples collected returned positive results, the best of which yielded a whole rock spodumene content of 10%. Follow-up field observations have subsequently identified additional surface exposures of similar pegmatite type along strike. Although this may be an exciting development, AfriTin admits to the significant work that is required, to fully understand these results. AfriTin’s mining license, on which the Uis Tin Mine is situated, hosts a JORC compliant mineral resource containing approximately 450,000 tonnes of Li2O, with the primary lithium ore mineral identified as petalite. The spodumene identified on ML 129 indicates the potential for broadening the range of AfriTin’s strategic mineral portfolio and furthering the company’s objective of establishing an inventory of technology metals. “The discovery of spodumene during our current exploration programme is an exciting development that highlights the significant potential of our license areas in Namibia and provides a promising target for AfriTin’s operations within the region.”