Lucapa Diamond Company has received firm commitments from institutional and sophisticated investors to subscribe for 166,666,668 fully paid new ordinary shares in the Company at an issue price of $0.075 per share to raise $12.5 million before costs. The Placement was corner-stoned by Sydney and Singapore based investment fund, Tribeca Investment Partners and included Lucapa’s existing substantial shareholders. The Company also welcomed new institutional investors to the register. The Company’s most advanced and one of the diamond industry’s most exciting primary source exploration programs, is the Lulo Joint Venture in Angola. Lucapa, together with its partners, Endiama and Rosa & Petalas, are exploring for the primary source of the large and high-value alluvial diamonds that are being recovered over the top of this vast kimberlite province on the Lulo concession. The Lulo JV, from more than 100 kimberlites it has discovered, identified 18 kimberlites for priority bulk sampling and commenced processing these bulk samples through the alluvial treatment plant. Sampling to date has delivered positive results with very significant recoveries of rare Type IIa diamonds (refer ASX announcement on 8 November 2021). To ensure (i) no reliance on the alluvial plant for capacity, (ii) continuous and unhindered kimberlite processing capability and (iii) effective diamond liberation from the hard oversize material (via crushing circuits), in 2021 Lucapa ordered a stand-alone kimberlite bulk sampling plant (KBSP) for the Lulo JV (and a separate crushing module). This KBSP is in the process of being constructed on-site and is scheduled to be fully operational in Q2 2022 as the wet season ends. In addition, Lucapa ordered dedicated kimberlite earthmoving fleet which has also arrived on site. This exploration program is at an exciting and critical stage, and as such a significant portion of the funds from the Placement are being allocated to the Lulo JV to ensure swift processing of the remaining priority bulk samples and additional kimberlite targets and the turnaround of results.