Tharisa has exercised its farm-in option and acquired a controlling interest in Karo Mining Holdings for a purchase consideration of US$27.0 million to be settled through the issue of 13.69 million new Tharisa shares to The Leto Settlement, a related party, thereby increasing its shareholding in Karo Holdings from 26.8% to 66.3%. Leto will retain the balance of 33.7%. The Karo Platinum Project is a long-life asset with an initial 20-year life of mine and project post tax net present value of US$770.4 million at spot PGM prices. It has initial probable reserves of 35.5 Mt at 2.31 g/t and 2.6 Moz (5PGE+Au) and a 3PGE+Au resource prill split favouring platinum (45.0%), palladium (42.0%) rhodium (4.0%) and gold (9.0%) with material base metal credits. Further to an amendment to the Investment Project Framework Agreement entered between the Republic of Zimbabwe and Leto on 22 March 2018, the shareholding in Karo Platinum, an indirect subsidiary of Karo Holdings, has been amended to 85% by Karo Zimbabwe Holdings, a wholly owned subsidiary of Karo Holdings, and 15% by the ZWE. RELATED:Tharisa’s 2021 operations and financials highlight solid strategy The Mining Lease area for the Karo Project covers an area of 23 903 ha and is located within the Great Dyke in the Mashonaland West District of Zimbabwe, approximately 80 km southwest of Harare and 35 km southeast of Chegutu. The Great Dyke is a PGM bearing geological feature that runs from a north to south direction. At approximately 550 km in length and up to 11 km wide, it is second to the Bushveld Complex of South Africa in terms of its PGM resource base. The project, which is situated within a designated Special Economic Zone, is in the southern portion of the middle chamber of the Great Dyke and is supported by good infrastructure, including road and power access in the project area. Phoevos Pouroulis, CEO of Tharisa, commented: “The development of a strategically significant tier one, high-grade, high-return, low-cost PGM resource is a natural evolution for Tharisa as it fulfils its strategy of becoming an integrated diversified developer of new metal assets. “Tharisa will develop and deliver its next PGM mine, Karo Platinum, in a world-class geological district that is supported by a pro-mining environment. The Karo Project is strategically located within a Special Economic Zone with the Mining Lease valid for the life of mine. “The investment and development of the Karo Project will create noteworthy employment and upliftment opportunities for the communities within the project area, as well as the creation of an economic hub with significant multiplier effects. The Karo Project will provide all stakeholders with a secure, sustainable and value accretive future. “The long-life Karo Project, when added to the more than 60-year LOM of the Tharisa PGM and chrome operations in South Africa, sets the foundation for Tharisa’s growth, particularly in the downstream value-enhancing beneficiation sector. The development of the Karo Project will significantly consolidate Tharisa as one of the world’s most forward-thinking and low-cost producers of PGMs in Africa. “As always, we will follow the highest ESG standards as we produce the metals needed to support the rapid growth of the hydrogen economy that help reduce global dependency on fossil fuels and continue to play a vital role in reducing carbon and NOx emissions. “With the challenges and uncertainty to the supply chain of these vital precious metals, a new short, dated source of primarily platinum and palladium metals is a significant risk mitigant for global users and provides security and certainty of supply.”