Over 4 000 Giant Bullfrog froglets and 2 adults have been efficaciously relocated to a new pan (endorheic wetland system) at Canyon Coal’s Phalanndwa Colliery near Delmas, in Mpumalanga. The relocation was undertaken owing to an expansion of the mining area at Phalanndwa Colliery. Canyon Coal Compliance Officer Arjen Nellsays, “Based on the number of Bullfrogs successfully relocated and the preservation of the genetics into account, the relocation can be regarded as a success. The froglets relocated to the new pan are expected to thrive as the habitat is deemed highly suitable for this species.” The Relocation Process Three field surveys were conducted to determine the presence of Bullfrogs in the vicinity of the pan which is proposed to be mined. The surveys were conducted by a terrestrial ecologist, herpetologist; and a wetland ecologist. The surveys were conducted to determine the presence of any Bullfrogs on-site, including the presence of adults, froglets, tadpoles, as well as any signs such as burrows. Arjen notes that the relocation process in the field consisted of: A site discussion on how the animals must be handled and the measures that should be taken to ensure the successful relocation. Set up of the field office to ensure that work was conducted in an orderly fashion including a work station for field records, filling crates with water and allocation of field apparatus (nets, buckets, crates, etc.) Capturing of all Bullfrogs observed (including adults, froglets and tadpoles), until the base of the bucket was covered. “Care was taken to ensure that the froglets were not injuring one another. Individual adult frogs were placed in the buckets to ensure their safety. The froglets were transferred from the buckets to the crates to ensure that they had sufficient space before being relocated to the new pan,” Arjen notes. A sample of 50 individuals were measured, weighed and photographed. Measurements taken included: 1) Photographing of the dorsal and ventral sides of the individuals, 2) Age Class (Froglet/Sub Adult/Adult), 3) Snout to Ventral Length, 4) Mass 5) Sex (in adults) Moreover, Arjen explains that the number of froglets was determined by placing them one by one into an empty crate. The crates were loaded into a vehicle and transported to the relocation pan and the relocations were performed continuously to ensure that the stress on the frogs was reduced. “The frogs were released at the edge of the relocation pan between foliage to ensure that they did not become prey before being accustomed to their new environment,” he concludes.