“Life is not linear; you have ups and downs. It’s how you deal with the troughs that defines you.” – Michael Lee-Chin, Jamaican Canadian billionaire businessman and philanthropist. Message from General Manager of Zululand Anthracite Colliery, Wayne Rowe No quote better sums up the roller coaster of emotions many of us have experienced over the past two years than the one above. READ THE FULL EDITION OF Zikhiphani eZAC JANUARY 2022 CARING COLLIERY / IMAYINI ENAKEKELAY HERE Great sacrifices and difficult decisions were made to ensure the mine overcame this turbulent period, but we have prevailed and our employees, community members, customers, suppliers, and all stakeholders couldn’t be happier that by working together we were able to overcome the difficulties we have faced. Looking forward to this year in terms of new developments, we plan to develop the Mngeni shaft which will extend ZAC’s life of mine. Mngeni is located about 27 km north-east of Ulundi and has a life of mine of about 2.5 years based on a run of mine production of about 25 000 tons a month. Mngeni is a critical shaft as without it ZAC will not be in the position to dilute the high overhead cost and the mine will not survive. Community and social development have always been core to ZAC’s values. This was illustrated when in 2020, despite ZAC having then been on care and maintenance, we did not pause our Social Labour Plan (SLP) agreements. We still handed over R1 million worth of new ablution facilities to Zwelonke High School in Mahlabathini, KwaZulu Natal. The 2021 – 2025 SLP holds new projects, bursaries, and internships so we look forward to kicking off with these activities now that COVID-19 is starting to stabilize. We ended 2021, by hosting our annual golf day at the Richards Bay Country Club, in KwaZulu Natal. This annual event, which was unable to take place in 2020 owing to COVID-19, was once more a resounding success, raising over R250 000 for charity. ZAC will continue to seek to operate safely and meet our targets this year to ensure our continued support for all our stakeholders. I encourage everyone to get vaccinated so we can work together to end this pandemic and start building up South Africa to its full potential again.