Côte d’Ivoire is one of the world’s standout gold mining destinations with huge activity currently underway in the country’s gold mining sector. One of the projects currently under development is Séguéla, now part of the Fortuna Silver Mines stable after Fortuna’s acquisition of fellow Canadian company Roxgold. As a result of the combination of the two companies, Fortuna now has a strong foothold in West Africa as Roxgold also owned the Yaramoko gold mine in Burkina Faso. Located approximately 480 km north-west of Abidjan, the Séguéla project covers an area of around 35 000 ha which hosts five near-surface orogenic lode-style deposits – Antenna, Koula, Ancien, Agouti and Boulder. In May 2021 a feasibility study (FS) demonstrated that Séguéla is a robust project – with an after-tax NPV of US$380 million – capable of potentially delivering an average annual gold production of 133 000 oz over the first six years of production, with an estimated production peak of 151 000 oz in year 4. The total mine life is nine years, and the total life of mine (LOM) gold production is 1.03 Moz. The FS estimates the average cash cost per ounce produced over the LOM at a very competitive US$567/oz and the AISC at US$832/oz. The project has estimated capital cost of US$142 million. The mining will consist of the simultaneous exploitation of the Antenna deposit and the satellite deposits at Koula, Ancien, Agouti and Boulder using conventional open pit methods. RELATED:Fortuna Silver Mines’ Séguéla advancing ahead of scheduleFortuna drills 20.2 g/t gold over 18.2 meters at Séguéla The mine schedule delivers 12.1 Mt of ore grading 2.8 g/t gold to the mill over the LOM, including three months of pre-production. In terms of processing, the flowsheet comprises conventional crushing, milling, gravity recovery, a carbon-in-leach (CIL) circuit, carbon elution and a gold recovery circuit. An initial nominal throughput of 1.25 Mtpa of mineralised material increases to 1.57 Mtpa in year 3. The FS assumes a forecast gold recovery of 94.5 % for the life of the production plan. Fortuna believes there is considerable scope for Séguéla to grow, with potential for underground expansion at Koula and Ancien and significant exploration prospectivity with the recent discovery of the Sunbird prospect located less than 2 km from the primary Antenna deposit – and over 20 prospective targets yet to be tested. Although a final development decision is still awaited as Fortuna has still to negotiate a Mining Convention (as of September 2021) with the government, an early works budget of US$11.5 million to commence detailed engineering work and to procure long-lead items such as the SAG mill has been approved. At the project site, the accommodation village is projected to be ready for occupancy in the fourth quarter of 2021 and key contracts with plant EPC and bulk earthworks contractors are close to being finalised. Based on current planning, the new mine is expected to start production in 2023. It is one of a trio of projects in Côte d’Ivoire that are currently at an advanced stage of development, the others being Endeavour Mining’s Fetekro project and Tietto Minerals’ Abujar project, both at the DFS stage. As measured by projected gold production, it is the smallest of the three but is nevertheless a very attractive proposition, given its low costs and excellent potential to grow its resource base.