KEFI the gold and copper exploration and development company has announced its recommencement of activities at the Tulu Kapi Gold Project. The gold and copper exploration and development company bears projects in Ethiopia and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Following the abatement of Ethiopia’s civil war at the end of 2021 and its State of Emergency being lifted, TKGM stated its intense collaboration with the Ethiopian Ministry of Mines, to ensure that it is appropriate for the recommencement of activities at the Tulu Kapi site. The company reports that over the past two months the security situation hasremained stable at both the site and the preferred transport routes, enabling activities at the Tulu Kapi site to recommence in an appropriately managed manner. “It is great to see that Ethiopia has settled down so quickly over the past two months and that TKGM’s teams are back in the field for launch preparations. Everyone is now pushing for full Project launch” stated KEFI Executive Chairman, Harry Anagnostaras-Adams.The Project’s principal contractors, Lycopodium and Corica mining services, are expected to deliver the final costings for confirmation at the end of April 2022. The company announced that its meetings with the project’s senior lenders and other finance syndicate members have reconfirmed its targeted financial closing in mid-2022, subject to the security situation remaining stable as activities increase over the coming months, and various documentation and government administrative tasks being completed. In addition, independentsecurity assessors have commenced regular field inspections.Tasks to be undertaken after resumption between March and June 2022 include field programmes for community consultations, Launch of Tulu Kapi Foundation and regulatory administrative tasks such as endorsement of historical costs. ““KEFI now has three advanced development gold and copper-gold projects with significant resource upside in two now-supportive jurisdictions of the Arabian Nubian Shield, and in which our beneficial interest is already the equivalent of 2.1 million oz gold. I look forward to keeping shareholders appraised of our progress.”