Mkango Resources is collaborating with B&W Group, EMR, GKN Automotive, HyProMag, Jaguar Land Rover and UoB in a £3.4 million magnet recycling project, SCREAM, of which £2.4 million or 71% will be funded by Driving the Electric Revolution, an Industrial Strategy Challenge Fund challenge delivered by UK Research and Innovation (UKRI). The budget for Mkango UK’s chemical processing pilot plant programme, to be developed as part of the Project, is £1.1 million, of which £0.8 million or 70% will be funded by UKRI. Mkango UK was established by Mkango to evaluate and develop complementary opportunities in rare earth recycling and green technology in the UK. Mkango also holds a 42% interest in SCREAM project partner, HyProMag, together with certain offtake and supply rights. HyProMag is pioneering commercialisation of short loop rare earth magnet recycling in the UK and Germany using HPMS technology. William Dawes, Chief Executive of Mkango stated: “We are very excited about this innovative project and the opportunity to develop chemical processing of NdFeB magnet scrap in the UK alongside supporting the scale up of the HPMS technology via our strategic interest in HyProMag. “We envisage that the recycling of rare earth magnets will play a key role in the development of robust supply chains to catalyse and support growth in the electric vehicle sector and in other clean technologies. “This Project further cements Mkango’s and HyProMag’s early mover advantage in the rare earth magnet recycling sector, highlighting its competitive position and strong network of industry and academic partners.” Nick Mann, Operations General Manager of HyProMag stated: “As HyProMag moves forward in the manufacturing of recycled magnets, the ability to demonstrate our products in a range of applications with different demands is crucial. “We are delighted to be working with such a talented consortium, to deliver premium products engineered to the highest standards and in doing so forge future relationships. This Project will push our magnet making to new levels and prove our ability to offer an alternative to current supply routes.”