In May 2021, there was much fanfare as Ivanhoe kick-started production at its Kamoa-Kakula copper mine in the DRC. Impressively, Kamoa-Kakula will be powered by clean, renewable hydro-generated electricity which will not only result in fewer greenhouse emissions but will also benefit local communities. To that end, in August 2021, Ivanhoe Mines extended its existing financing agreement under a public-private partnership with the Democratic Republic of Congo’s state-owned power company, La Société Nationale d’ Électricité (SNEL), to upgrade turbine 5, a major turbine in the existing Inga II hydropower facility on the Congo River. The extension of this financing agreement builds on the framework agreed in the memorandum of understanding signed with SNEL and announced in April 2021. Under this financial arrangement, rehabilitation and upgrade activities are financed by Kamoa Copper’s holding company, Kamoa Holding, by way of a loan to SNEL, which will be repaid through a deduction to monthly power bills incurred over the life of the loan. An estimated 162 MW of hydropower is expected to be generated by upgrading Inga II’s turbine 5, which when combined with the 78 MW of hydropower from the Mwadingusha facility, will give Kamoa-Kakula priority access to a combined 240 MW of clean, renewable electricity. The surplus power produced from the upgraded turbine will be distributed on the national power grid to increase access to electricity for the citizens of the Democratic Republic of Congo. Work has already commenced on a technical assessment to define the scope of work and associated costs estimate. The work will also include upgrading of the terminal equipment on the Inga-Kolwezi transmission line to increase its transfer capacity by a minimum of 200 MW. Speaking on the development, Ivanhoe Mines co-chair Robert Friedland states, “The Kamoa Copper management team continues to execute on our strategic plan to systematically expand Kamoa-Kakula into one of the world’s largest and greenest copper producers. The timely refurbishment of turbine 5 at the Inga II hydropower complex is instrumental in ensuring we meet the aggressive expansion goals we’ve set out to accomplish in the next few years.” SNEL CEO Jean-Bosco Kayombo Kayan adds, “SNEL and Ivanhoe Mines are confident that the Inga II project will enjoy the same success as our joint rehabilitation of the Mwadingusha hydroelectric power station. We are all keen on fast-tracking the return to service of unit 5 at Inga II to provide access to electricity to more people in the DRC, and to meet the power demands of the world-scale Kamoa-Kakula copper mine.” Félix Tshisekedi, president of the DRC, also commented on the significance of the public-private partnership to produce clean, renewable electricity to support Kamoa-Kakula’s expansion plans and provide reliable electricity to local communities. “Partnerships such as the one between SNEL and Ivanhoe allow us to inject additional capacity into our electrical grid and improve the living conditions of Congolese citizens by increasing their access to electricity.”