AngloGold Ashanti is rolling out a novel in-situ water remediation project at its Geita mine in Tanzania. Working with a local Tanzanian/German joint venture partner, the project will use a process whereby naturally occurring bacteria directly remediates sulphate in groundwater. The technology – known as in-situ TSF Bioremediation – is said by AngloGold Ashanti to be ground-breaking. The AngloGold Ashanti team worked to adapt it to the needs of the mining industry and it is believed to represent its first application at a mine site. The fact that the remediation takes place at the site of contamination is key, as it means the process has a very low environmental impact. It can be used instead of more intrusive water remediation solutions such as constructing a water processing plant, digging trenches, and pumping the water back to a tailings storage facility (TSF). With a successful concept study completed in 2019, the project is to be rolled out in three phases at Geita. This in-situ remediation approach has scope to be applied at other sites where it could be used not only at TSFs, but around pits as part of decommissioning. The process uses naturally occurring bacteria in the ground water to remove contaminants such as sulphate and nitrate. Because the bacteria are in-situ, the process, once established, will become self-sustaining after a few years. For the process to work, a carbon source – in this instance, vegetable oil – is introduced to the impacted area, providing food for the micro bacteria. A combination of sulphur-, sulphate- and nitrate-reducing bacteria carries out the remediation. After acclimatising, the bacteria convert the nitrates to nitrogen gas and precipitate the sulphates to physical sulphides. Vegetable oil is added over the course of a few months, while the team determines how much, and how often, this needs to take place to sustain the contamination-busting bacteria. This process will, over time, build a barrier that prevents the spread of sulphate-enriched water beyond the reaction zone. As the global population grows, the demand for good quality water – required to meet the needs of society, agriculture and industry – continues to escalate. This often occurs in the face of mounting water supply pressure caused by more frequent droughts. Therefore, it is encouraging to see that AngloGold Ashanti is taking measures to manage its water usage responsibly and ensure that adverse impacts on local and regional water resources are avoided in all its operations. Geita, in the Lake Victoria goldfield of north-western Tanzania, is one of Africa’s top five gold mines, producing 623 000 oz in 2020, the highest production level achieved in the last 15 years. In 2020, it became entirely an underground operation following the completion of open-pit operations in September 2020. However, in 2021 it restarted open-pit operations with the inauguration of the Nyamulilima open pit in April. Nyamulilima is expected to produce up to 1 Moz over the next six years.