The definition of a good mining investment has taken a few drastic turns in recent years – and today is no longer characterised by sound project economics alone. ESG ‘compliancy’ has been steadily climbing the investment ladder and now sits on the top three rungs of any mining focused portfolio. This has naturally seen an increased interest in technology and green metals of the future, but what about those more traditional commodities, such as investor safe haven gold for example, asks LAURA CORNISH. Who better to turn to for answers than the World Gold Council (WGC), which in the latter half of 2021 released a new report titled Gold and climate change: Decarbonising investment portfolios. The report looks at gold’s potential impact on the carbon profile of investment portfolios and their alignment with climate targets, and further aims to provide investors and stakeholders with a greater understanding of the implications regarding the transition to net zero carbon for gold in the context of a global multi-asset portfolio. “This report was a long time coming and was initiated about five years ago when investors of scale started questioning where gold stands in relation to ESG and climate change,” says John Mulligan, publisher of the report and market relations and climate change lead director for the WGC. “At the start, we had very little information pertaining to gold’s decarbonisation contribution/impact. “The result was a series of reports, each enabling us to gather more granular data and a more comprehensive picture, which led to the point of this, our latest report providing raw clarity on gold’s impact on the planet and the associated necessity to continue investing in it,” Mulligan notes. To understand exactly how the yellow metal fits within a carbon friendly investment portfolio, its carbon emissions footprint must also be understood. READ MORE ARTICLES ABOUT GOLD And this is something the WGC delved into and provided feedback on in December 2020. In conjunction with energy and mining specialists at Wood Mackenzie, the following key findings were reported: So, gold stands to benefit enormously from the clean energy initiatives being implemented at a governmental level across the globe. RELATED:Good news from Gold Fields – profit up by 20% (US$789 million)2021: A tough year for AngloGold Ashanti “In the simplest of terms, gold’s ability to contribute to global decarbonisation efforts is substantial and as such, can deliver significant value to investors looking to see results from their mining portfolios or looking for ESG-responsible opportunities to place their money,” Mulligan highlights. With this information in hand, compiling a report for the investment community was the next obvious step To further explore the implications of a transition to net zero carbon for gold as a portfolio asset, the WGC collaborated with specialist climate risk consultancy Urgentem Research. Together, the organisations sought to quantify the impact of introducing gold as a strategic investment to a global multi-asset portfolio from a climate transition perspective, while mindful of its risk and return performance too. Multi-asset portfolios, with data covering five years of monthly returns, were back-tested using different percentage allocations of assets to explore how the incorporation of gold at increasing weights might impact the portfolio’s risk-return profile and its overall carbon footprint. The increased allocations to gold had a notable impact on the carbon footprint and emissions intensity of the market value of the overall portfolio. For a portfolio of 70% equities and 30% bonds, introducing a 10% allocation to gold (and reducing the other asset holdings by equal amounts) lowered the emissions intensity of portfolio value by 7%, and a 20% holding in gold lowered it by 17%. There were also strong indications that an allocation to gold, in addition to its climate transition benefits, would also improve the risk return profile of the portfolio. “The reality is that owning gold bullion correlates to an extremely low carbon footprint with zero emissions. The quantities of gold ultimately produced are in fact quite low, meaning the energy used to produce it is extremely small,” Mulligan notes. According to the report, the WGC notes that many investors want to quantify the climate implications of investment holdings by using what is often referred to as the ‘temperature rating’ or ‘warming potential’ of a portfolio. This offers a high-level indication of what portfolio holdings imply for the global temperature projected to 2100. Findings suggest gold might play a positive role in mitigating portfolio climate impacts – a 50% allocation to gold causes the estimated temperature increase implied by portfolio holdings to fall 40%, by over 1ºC, compared to an equity-heavy portfolio without gold; a 10% gold allocation results in a temperature fall of 0.21ºC (a 7% drop). “Naturally, the carbon taxes associated with gold are also reduced and so it makes sense that an investor should include the metal in their mining portfolio,” Mulligan adds. The net effect of gold investment is a journey towards net zero and should not be overlooked in favour of metals that can make easy promises to deliver in this regard. A decarbonisation-friendly mining investment portfolio is one that should definitely include gold,” Mulligan concludes.