Nimba Development Company (NDC), a modern mining company focused on resource development in West Africa, has been transferred control of Société de Développement Nimba (SDN), formerly Zali Mining S.A. and prior to that West African Exploration S.A. (WAE), the owner of the Nimba Iron Ore Project. Alongside NDC, which has an 85% shareholding, the Government of Guinea holds the remaining 15% in SDN. NDC and the Government of Guinea have agreed to work together to advance thedevelopment of the Nimba Iron Ore Project and associated transport infrastructure so as toencourage responsible economic development in the Nimba region of Guinea. NDC is a UK registered company with an international, mining experienced management team and Guinean and International shareholders. SDN is a Guinean registered company with rights to develop the iron ore assets adjacent to, but not intruding into, the Mount Nimba Strict Nature Reserve. It is a priority of SDN and its shareholders to ensure that the Mount Nimba Strict Nature Reserve and its flora and fauna are protected. All mining development will be subject to stringent international environmental protection standards with adherence monitored by UNESCO to ensure there is no negative impact. In addition to the development of the mine, and in order to ensure that the iron oreaccesses global seaborne markets, a rail extension will be developed to connect the Nimbaregion to the existing railroad in Tokadeh and the port of Buchanan on the Liberian coast. Itis intended that this transport infrastructure will also be made available to other users inorder to encourage increased investment in South-Eastern Guinea as well as to increaseconnectivity for individuals across Guinea and Liberia. The executive management of NDC is led by Chief Executive Officer, Steven Din, andincludes, Paul Wilson (Chief Financial Officer), Alexander Pouget (Chief Marketing Officer)and Gert Buelens (Chief Legal Counsel). Steven Din, Chief Executive Officer of Nimba Development Company, commented: “On behalf of everyone at the Nimba Development Company, I would like to express howhonoured we are to be working alongside the Guinean Government and representatives ofthe community in the Nimba region. Together, we have an opportunity to accelerateeconomic development in South-Eastern Guinea and develop an iron ore facility that will, for the first time from this region, export iron ores from Guinea through Liberia to the coast. “We are excited about developing a modern, 21st century mining company that holds theenvironment and local communities at the core of its identity. The executive managementteam at NDC is world class, bringing skills and experience from across the industry to becombined with local talent to ensure timely delivery of our maiden project. “The next step in our journey is to work with our development and infrastructure partners to finalise the necessary feasibility studies and agree detailed, future plans. I look forward to implementing NDC’s long-term strategy and helping catalyse the creation in West Africa of a third, global iron ore province. Alongside Western Australia and Brazil, West Africa can be a globally important iron ore producer, delivering long-overdue economic development for Guinea and Liberia.”