DRA Global has provides the following update in relation to the senior leadership of the Company. After nine years with the Company, Andrew Naude has informed the Board that he will step down as MD and CEO of DRA following an appropriate hand-over period. Naude joined DRA as a senior executive in 2013 and is DRA’s longest-serving director. He served as Interim CEO in 2016 and has been Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer since 2019. He led DRA’s international expansion from South Africa and oversaw its transformation into a global mining services business operating on five continents with annual revenue exceeding $1 billion. Last year, DRA listed on the Australian and Johannesburg securities exchanges creating a platform for further growth and long-term value realisation, bringing to fruition the final milestone in DRA’s growth strategy set in 2016, which Naude was instrumental in developing and executing. DRA Chairman Peter Mansell thanked Naude for his service and contribution to DRA. “On behalf of the Board, staff and shareholders we thank Andrew for his service to the Company, in particular his belief in DRA’s potential and his willingness to be ambitious and champion change” Mansell said. Naude commented: “I am proud to say that everything we set out to achieve in 2016 has been achieved. I joined DRA to deliver a specific growth and internationalisation objective. Since then, DRA has doubled in size through a successful international expansion to 4,700 employees and 19 offices worldwide and has become a truly global service provider to the mining, minerals and metals sector. “As a long-term shareholder and a strong believer in DRA’s future and the quality of its people, I believe that DRA is ready for a new CEO to take us through the next phase of operations as an established, global multi-disciplinary engineering, project deliveryand operations management group”. The Company has commenced its search for a successor and will identify both internal and external candidates for the permanent CEO position. The Board has identified James Smith, a senior executive who has been with DRA since 2017 and is a current member of the global leadership team, to take over from Naude as Interim CEO effective from the annual general meeting to be held on 17 May 2022. Smith has over 20 years’ experience with an extensive background in consulting advisory and strategy, and is currently responsible for DRA’s Operations, Maintenance and Advisory business. The handover to Smith will begin immediately, and the terms of his interim appointment will be disclosed before it takes effect. The Board has also undertaken an assessment of the most appropriate operating model to underpin delivery of DRA’s next phase of strategic objectives. DRA’s Chairman Peter Mansell commented: “DRA has had a successful journey to date, and we are establishing the Company’s strategic objectives and operating model for the next phase of growth. For DRA’s people, clients and stakeholders this Interim CEO period will be very much business as usual.”