The Morila gold mine in Mali was such a prolific producer of gold two decades ago – when its production peaked at 1 Moz in a single year – that it was fondly known as ‘Morila the Gorilla’. Although those glory days will almost certainly never be repeated, the mine’s new owner, ASX-listed Firefinch, believes that the operation can be revived to the point where it produces up to 200 000 ozpa of gold. Firefinch, which used to be known as Mali Lithium (reflecting its ownership of the Goulamina lithium project), announced its intention to acquire the mine – by then a tailings operation – in August 2020 from Barrick and AngloGold Ashanti and the deal was completed just a few weeks later in November. The value of the transaction was US$29.7 million. With the acquisition cost per resource ounce being less than US$15/oz, Firefinch believes it got a real bargain – so much so that it has claimed, with perhaps some hyperbole, that the acquisition is a contender for ‘deal of the century’. RELATED:Firefinch gets the green light to develop Mali-based lithium projectAnother key milestone for Morila the GorillaFirefinch raises A$100 million to fast track production at Morila The company has wasted no time in getting to grips with its new asset and since the acquisition has issued a steady stream of releases detailing the progress it has been making. The comminution circuit of the 4.5 Mtpa processing plant has been refurbished and open pit mining operations have begun at Pit 5, with the Malian mining contractor, EGTF, deploying a 100 t class haulage fleet to site. The first blast in the pit – also ranking as the first production blast at the mine since 2015 – occurred in July 2021. The big prize at the mine remains the Morila Superpit, which is now being dewatered in preparation for mining to start early in 2022. A contract to mine the Superpit, as well as the Viper and N’tiola satellite pits, has been awarded to international mining contractor Mota-Engil in joint venture with Malian company Inter-Mining Services. The contract has an estimated value of approximately US$360 million. Despite all the years of mining, Morila still has a considerable resource in place and earlier this year Firefinch issued a revised mineral resource of 42.6 Mt at 1.6 g/t gold for 2.2 million contained ounces, the bulk of it open pittable. There is considerable scope for this to grow with new drilling underway in the Superpit. The first diamond hole delivered 10.5 m at 30.4 g/t gold, which Firefinch’s MD, Dr Michael Anderson, has described as an “incredible result” confirming not only the continuity of high-grade mineralisation below the previously mined pit, but also the significant potential for underground mining. Firefinch’s present life of mine plan extends through to 2030 but this could well be extended, depending on exploration success at the mine itself and in the wider 685 km2 of surrounding tenure controlled by Firefinch. The company is expecting to produce gold at an annualised rate of 70 to 90 000 ozpa by mining the satellite pits and exploiting stockpiles and tailings material, with this ramping up to between 150 and 200 000 ozpa once the Superpit comes into production. If these targets are met, the company will have pulled off a remarkable achievement, resurrecting an iconic African mine that was considered by many just a couple of years ago to be close to the end of its life.