Atlantic Lithium has announced a significant Mineral Resource Estimate upgrade to 30.1 Mt at 1.26% Li2O for the Ewoyaa lithium deposit within the Cape Coast Lithium Portfolio in Ghana. The Resource is reported in accordance with the JORC Code (2012). Commenting on the Company’s latest progress, Lennard Kolff, Interim CEO of Atlantic Lithium, said: “We are delighted to have increased the Ewoyaa Resource by a further 42% to 30.1 Mt at 1.26% Li2O and will continue to grow this robust project with ongoing drilling programs. “Our goal was to increase the Resource to support a >12-year mine life and to convert >80% of the previous resource from Inferred to Indicated status. We have comfortably achieved both goals, demonstrating the robust geological fundamentals of the Project. “With the commencement of additional resource, and exploration drilling along strike and at depth, we are confident of further resource upgrades. “In conjunction with the ongoing drilling, mining studies in support of the Pre-Feasibility Study are well advanced. “Due to the coarse nature of the spodumene dominant mineralisation, metallurgical test-work to date has consistently delivered high-purity, low contaminants >6% Li2O spodumene concentrate utilising dense medium gravity separation, boding well for low capital, operating and carbon intensities. “The Resource is exceptionally well located, being only 1km from the sealed national highway and 110 km from the operating deep-sea port of Takoradi with adjacent grid power; it is challenging to find other lithium pegmatite projects better located. “Delivery of the upgraded 30.14 Mt at 1.26% Li2O Mineral Resource Estimate including 20.5 Mt at 1.29% Li2O in the Indicated category, is an important de-risking milestone for this industry standout project. “With Ewoyaa being fully funded to production through our agreement with Piedmont Lithium, this upgrade highlights the exceptional potential of the project and the value that it brings to the Company.” Highlights: