Speaking at the third and final leg of the DMRE’s provincial Mining Investment Conference in Kimberly, Northern Cape yesterday, South Africa’s mining sector- Deputy Minister for the DMRE, Dr Nobuhle Nkabane gave a keynote address. “We highlighted that the sector much seek to achieve maximum economic benefit from upstream, midstream and downstream mining segments, and across the full value chain of operations,” writes Hlengiwe Motaung. The event follows two conferences held in Limpopo, in September 2021, and most recently, in Rustenburg, in January 2022- which according to the DMRE are South Africa’s territories which constitute “new frontiers” in South Africa’s mining sector. The Deputy Minister blew her department’s horn, as she attributed the sector’s role to the stability of the national GDP during the height of the COVID-19 pandemic. “During the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, the mining sector continued to make meaningful contributions to the GDP. This was because of concerted efforts led by the DMRE, working in conjunction with the Minerals Council of South Africa and mining companies to minimise the impact of the pandemic, both to individual workers and the mining operations. As a result, mining was the only sector that saw a marked increase and growth in contributions to the GDP in 2021” RELATED:Read about SA GDP in the national budget In her address, the Deputy Minister stated that between 2011 and 2021, the Northern Cape office received more than 204 applications for mining rights, with a current total of 175 mining rights issued. “This clearly shows the potential that the province has for future mine developments and expansions.” she added. While the mining sector continues to signal positive prospects, it is almost impossible to overlook the challenges the industry continues to face – health and safety leading the pack, and the lack of protocol adherence due to production pressures among others. David Msiza, Health and Safety Inspector at the DMRE paid homage to the 743 Covid-19 related fatalities which were seen by the industry Nationally and emphasised his department’s commitment to ensuring full adherence to all safety measures by mining companies. “We are regulators. We will continue to inspect and audit the mines, and where necessary, we will act. We encourage that the mines must take actions before we come.” As it stands a total of 333857 mine workers have been vaccinated. Second to health and safety is the unemployment challenge. In 2019, the province had employed an estimated number of about 350 000 people, 40 000 being in mining. To date, only 275 000 have made the cut, leaving the Northern Cape mining sector with only 15 000 workers. In contrast, the contribution of mining to the province’s GDP continues to grow, as it accounts for 23 % of the GDP, second to government services, but less than 10% in job opportunities. [KEYNOTE] Dr Nkabane said Central to our efforts is the ongoing programme of transforming the mining industry for the benefit of all RSA. in particular the previously disengaged South Africans. Our efforts must result in the creation of new black mining capitalists #NCIC2022 pic.twitter.com/YvRdnf5b7T Host of the province, the Premier of the Northern Cape, Dr Zamani Saul highlighted the matter. “This is a contradiction that we will have to engage in, because if there is an increase in mining activities in every region of the province and mining contributes a big portion to the province’s GDP, we want to see an increase in the contribution of mining in our fight to reduce the high levels of unemployment” he said. Exploration also came into the spotlight. The Deputy Minister emphasized the pertinent role that exploration plays within the mining industry and introduced the Exploration Strategy, which aims to ensure the attainment of at least 5% share of global exploration expenditure within the short to medium term. “The strategy identifies barriers that inhibit exploration investment in South Africa that is commensurate with its geological endowments and proposes a coordinated approach amongst key stakeholders in resolving the existing challenges in the shortest possible time,” she concluded.