Globally, the mining industry is undergoing one of the most significant transformations of our generation – striving to become zero-carbon. This way mines can become ever more energy efficient with vastly reduced levels of CO2 emissions, while at the same time staying competitive and ensuring high productivity. Technology does not only make mining safer and more optimised, but it is also a key component of accelerating the decarbonisation of the sector. And ABB’s Ability eMine is set to be a game-changer in this regard. eMine is an exciting milestone to help convert existing mining operations from fossil fuel energy to all-electric. It comprises a portfolio of electrification technologies which makes the all-electric mine possible from mine to port and is integrated with digital applications and services to monitor and optimise energy usage. It can electrify any mining equipment across hoisting, grinding, hauling and material handling. The technology provides integral design planning and thinking to maximise the value of electrification, helping to design the hauling process in the most optimised way with solutions that match mine constraints and help meet production targets. It helps mine operators map their journey towards an all-electric mine from phasing out diesel to embedding a new mindset and new team skills. By fully integrating electrification and digital systems from the mine to the port, eMine further reduces overall costs and improves mine performance while significantly lowering environmental impact. ABB is also piloting eMine FastCharge, the world’s fastest and only fully automated charging system for haul trucks. It also incorporates the eMine Trolley System which can reduce diesel consumption by up to 90%, significantly lowering energy costs and environmental impact. FastCharge can serve as a cornerstone of the transition to fully electrified mines across the industry. This flexible and fully automated solution is being designed for the harshest environments, can be installed anywhere, and can charge any electric truck without human intervention at up to 600 kW, the highest power available on today’s market to minimise the downtime of mobile assets. Charging time will depend on the battery capacity onboard the haul truck and the operational profile; however, in many instances a suitable state of charge could be reached within 15 minutes. With eMine, ABB is extending its capabilities to the electrification of mining trucks and technologies for the full hauling process. “With eMine, mines can become ever more energy efficient with vastly reduced levels of CO2 emissions, while at the same time staying competitive and ensuring high productivity,” says Max Luedtke, global head of mining at ABB.