Mako Gold has commenced a 1 500m diamond drill (DD) programme at the Gogbala prospect within the company’s flagship Napié project in Côte d’Ivoire. Gogbala is located on a +23km soil anomaly and coincident 30km-long Napié Fault. Mako Gold entered into a farm-in and joint venture agreement on the Napié Permit with Occidental Gold SARL, a subsidiary of Perseus Mining. Mako currently owns a 51% interest in Napié and has the ability to earn up to 75% interest through the delivery of a feasibility study. The drilling is to test mineralisation at depth and to gain valuable structural and geological data to enhance the understanding of the deposit.  DD rig is supplementing ongoing RC rig to accelerate drilling to deliver a maiden mineral resource estimate (MRE) in Q2 2022. Drilling is extensional in nature with the aim to increase the upcoming maiden MRE at depth. Read: Mako Gold increases its footprint in Côte d’lvoire Meanwhile, the 15 000 m scout Aircore (AC) drilling programme at the Komboro and Tchaga North Prospects on the Napié project is progressing well. At the Komboro Prospect 5 712 m of AC drilling has been completed which concludes the AC programme. Samples are being processed and sent to the lab for assaying. Mako’s MD, Peter Ledwidge commented, “We are pleased to be accelerating the drilling with the addition of a second drill rig at Gogbala. Our RC drilling to date has been relatively shallow, generally down to about 100 m vertical depth. The DD rig will allow us to test mineralisation at greater depth, in order to show the potential to add ounces to the deposit at depth. “In addition, the oriented core samples from DD will unlock valuable structural and other geological information to better understand the deposit at Gogbala. We are also pleased to have recently completed over 11 000m of AC drilling on the Komboro and Tchaga North prospects with the aim of making a new discovery at Napié. We look forward to providing AC, RC and DD assays results as they are received.”