The Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) and the National Union of Mineworkers (NUM), have on issued Sibanye-Stillwater with a notice of strike action to commence from the evening shift on Wednesday. The strike action will affect operations in the Free State and Gauteng. “All workers of Sibanye-Stillwater (gold operations) will be affected because Sibanye will implement a lockout” said William Mabapa, acting general secretary The National Union of Mineworkers (NUM). The decision comes after the unions rejected the company’s revised wage offer of a R700 increase and a R100 increase in the living out allowance annually, while NUM and AMCU demanded a R1 000 increase in each year of a three-year agreement, for underground and surface workers. Sibanye-Stillwater CEO Neal Froneman said the decision to strike was disappointing. “The offer we made is fair, taking into consideration current inflationary living costs, considers the sustainability of the SA gold operations and the interests of all stakeholders for the long term.” Read more about Sibanye-Stillwater “We urge employees to carefully consider the consequences of strike action on them personally and collectively. Strike action will only serve to jeopardize the sustainability of our gold operations and, ultimately, their futures,” concluded Froneman. In a secret ballot conducted by NUM and UASA last week, UASA minerals and energy’s members did not vote in favour of industrial action. On the same stance, Solidarity has accepted the company’s revised wage offer of R800 increase. Economist Dawie Roodt said the miners were striking for 1% more on their current annual package. “Striking longer than that is dumb because even with the salary increase you will still be at loss because of the days lost due to no work no pay.” On a statement released on Wednesday, Solidarity Union has condemned Sibanye-Stillwater’s moral compass, accusing them of locking out its members despite its acceptance of the wage offer last week. The union has opted for the legal route, as they plan to approach the Labor Court on an urgent basis to obtain an interdict against the lock-out that will be applied to its members at Sibanye-Stillwater. “In terms of the lock-out notice, the majority of members of all the unions involved have to accept an offer before a settlement can be reached. This implies that Solidarity’s members who have accepted the offer will also be locked out, and the principle of no work, no pay will apply,”explained Riaan Visser, deputy general secretary for the Mining, Agriculture and Chemical Industry at Solidarity. Solidarity insists that its members are being treated with contempt. “Sibanye-Stillwater’s executive will have to reflect on how the company has lost its moral compass under its management and that, on top of the aforementioned, the company now also does not respect employees’ right to accept a wage offer, especially after some of the company’s negotiators had given an undertaking to Solidarity that this would not happen,” concluded Visser. Sibanye-Stillwater spokesperson James Wellsted said that the company’s contingency plans included shutting down the gold operations and to stop ventilating the underground shafts. The parties have been in an ongoing engagement with the attempt to reach agreement on wages since June 2021.