The world of exploration drilling is, like many other areas of the mining industry, undergoing a period of major evolution. This is largely being driven by two criteria – the adoption of technology and the contribution to ESG principles, both dominating how this sector is rapidly changing, Master Drilling Exploration COO EDDIE DIXON tells LAURA CORNISH. The ‘art’ of exploration drilling stretches way back in time and represents traditional tried and tested practices – a statement that holds true from the late 1950s until the start of the 21st century. “This period focused on extracting core by means of wireline drilling systems, which did not really change over the following decades. Simply put, areas of development during that period focused on enhancing drill machines to be faster and more efficient,” Dixon starts. The true onset of technology took hold in the 2000s and the changes that have come with that have equated to faster developments within the exploration drilling field. Between 2000 and 2010, Dixon refers to a second generation of exploration drilling machines – designed to be more cost effective and even more efficient, and hydraulically operated as opposed to mechanically operated. “Health and safety also started to feature more prominently in the field towards the end of the period and this led to some major machinery developments,” Dixon continues. “Machines incorporated rod handling systems, cabs became air conditioned and camera systems started to give visibility on site – all elements that today are standard operating practice in the sector.” 2020 heralds in a truly new era The onset of COVID-19, which represents the digital adoption catalyst for the mining industry, undeniably extends into the exploration drilling industry. The pandemic necessitated the adoption of technology, which in the case of drilling is designed to better understand the performance of a drill and its operator. Of equal importance, it enables faster decision making in relation to data delivered and interpreted, thereby helping inform how best to proceed with or adapt an outlined drilling programme – “which is a costly exercise”. “Digital technologies are geared towards answering key questions that will enhance activity performance and this is the space our exploration drilling specialists are currently playing in,” Dixon reiterates. How can data be captured and interpreted accurately from the machine? Can most drilling activities be executed from an office or control centre if the necessary information is on hand? What exactly can be measured while drilling? What is happening down the hole during drilling? How does surveying fit into data management? “Interpreting the data gathered from all of these areas means decisions can be taken more frequently and can be adjusted to ensure overall timeframes are not extended, but possibly reduced – delivering significant cash saving benefits in the process,” Dixon outlines. “Naturally, understanding the machine also assists with the obvious maintenance – which again assists in reducing downtime and ensures schedules and timeframes are always met.” Dixon does not shy away from one of the biggest concerns around intelligent drilling, and that is the associated costs. “The rand/dollar per metre drilled today is considerably higher because of new technologies that we have and can be incorporated into a standard drilling machine. But as I’ve continuously mentioned, a lot of this technology is geared towards improving timeframes and accuracy, the merits of which far outweigh the costs associated with deploying smarter machines,” he certifies. While technology sits front and centre of revolutionising the exploration drilling sector, there are other important factors at play. ESG principles are dominating the mining stage at present, and Dixon believes exploration drillers have a role to play in meeting expectations in these areas. “This topic is occupying a significant portion of our decision making at present and is an area our industry must now consider key to its business.” This more specifically entails considering how women can have access to and be utilised within the field, and by extension of this, communities as well. “We must also consider our impact on the environment and ways in which we can reduce our carbon footprint, primarily by looking at cleaner options for powering our machines. Master Drilling Exploration for example is looking at deploying hybrid, or partially hybrid, battery operated drills in 2022.” The last 20 years has been a defining period for the exploration industry – and while the machines continue to be perfected with time, there is a bigger picture developing that extends well beyond the machine’s operating parameters. Understanding the machine, understanding the data it produces and ensuring that all activities are respectful of the environment and the people it impacts are dominating the exploration industry – and will continue to do so for the foreseeable future. What about training? There is a lot to consider when looking at training, Dixon notes. One area that hasn’t been touched on is automation, and moving the operator away from the machine, entirely or into a controlled environment. It is perhaps a controversial subject, but this is something that must be considered, for the betterment of the industry. It requires little explanation further, he continues, other than to ensure operators are trained to operate drills remotely and that the skill of maintaining these machines is adapted accordingly as well. “For operators who will continue to operate machines on site, training is more important than ever, particularly in light of health and safety – and ensuring machines are not compromised due to a lack of understanding or respect for the machine. “This is something we take seriously, particularly considering the industry’s ongoing struggle with attracting and retaining good skills. In-house training is the best solution in response to this and is something Master Drilling Exploration includes in its business model,” Dixon highlights. The importance of this is further reflected when Dixon highlights that the company will not undertake or commit to a project without the right skills in place. “Selecting to do a project in today’s market lies not with equipment availability but human resources availability. But there is a silver lining as we are afforded the opportunity to contribute towards our clients’ sustainability efforts by transferring skills to local citizens, in essence solving two challenges simultaneously.” EXPLORATION – CORE TO MASTER DRILLING? Master Drilling may be better known for its raise boring activities, but Dixon notes that the exploration arm of the business currently contributes approximately 5% of total business revenue. Exploration has however been identified as holding significant growth opportunity for the business, so much so that acquisitions in this space form part of the strategy to achieve this. “There are potentially two acquisitions in the pipeline which will contribute towards building this business subsidiary,” Dixon confirms.