The global reach of mineral process equipment specialist Multotec has been highlighted by the recent supply of its South African-manufactured slurry pumps to a chrome project in Kazakhstan. According to Gerhard Hendriksz, general manager responsible for slurry pumps at Multotec, an order of 38 slurry pumps was delivered in mid-December 2021 through a collaboration of Multotec’s international business team and the company’s distributor in Kazakhstan. “The pumps were produced according to the specifications provided by  Multotec’s distributor, ensuring the units will deliver the required duty for the end-customer,” says Hendriksz. “This includes being designed to withstand highly abrasive operating conditions.” Certain chrome deposits in Kazakhstan boast some of the world’s highest concentrations of chrome oxide (Cr₂O₃) – up to 62% content – making the slurry particularly abrasive. The pump range that Multotec delivered includes models from the HD25 to the MD300, in metal and rubber-lined configurations to suit their respective duties. An impressive turnaround time of just 10 weeks was achieved, with Multotec leveraging its trusted local supply chain that included foundry work, machining and other suppliers as well as collaboration with Multotec’s technical partner, 7D based in Perth, Australia. Andre Burger, production manager responsible for pumps at Multotec, also emphasises that a close working relationship with end user and Multotec’s Russian-speaking business team ensured smooth preparation and delivery. “Our distributor has in-depth knowledge of the customer’s applications and has the engineering expertise to ensure optimal product specification and performance,” says Burger. “Multotec will support the products with aftersales and support services, including availability of spare parts.” Despite the trade disruptions related to the Covid-19 pandemic, Multotec has continued to perform strongly on the export front. Last year, it earned a place in the Exporter of the Year Awards – presented by the South African Capital Equipment Export Council (SACEEC). Multotec supplies a complete range of pumps for medium and heavy duty slurry applications, including cyclone feed, spirals feed, mill discharge, tailings disposal, filter feed, effluent discharge and spillage. The range caters for flow rates from around 15 m3/hr up to 2,000 m3/hr.