An environment-friendly, cost-effective dust suppression solution is being supplied by Delmas business Road Science Technology to Phalanndwa Colliery, in Delmas. It is proving integral to Canyon Coal’s dust mitigation strategy at the mine. Road Science Technology (RST) directors Nondumiso Mathenjwa, Thulani Isaac Masango and Emanuel Siwelani highlight that dust on mine sites can present a major risk to the health of workers, negatively effects the environment, and can substantially reduce the lifespan of mining machinery. Therefore, it was crucial for the mine to utilise a solution that would bond with the dust particles, preventing them from becoming airborne. RST combines the collective skills of Emanuel, who is a civil engineer, Nondumiso who is a mining engineer and Thulani, who is a businessperson. Most of whom were born and bred in Delmas. Nondumiso notes that RST service offering includes mine road construction, maintenance and dust suppression as well. “Currently most of our business comes from Delmas, however, we aim to grow the business nationally,” she enthuses. Getting an Opportunity “In early June of 2020, we were granted an opportunity to do a trial on around 1 kilometre of haul road at Phalanndwa Colliery to show how well we could maintain the haul road. We applied our dust suppressant on their roads and used one of our specialised machines, which is a tractor with a broom, to prepare the earth. The mine management was very impressed with the results and that’s how we came to be given the contract to provide dust suppression at the mine,” explains Nondumiso. Emanuel points out that the lignosulfonate dust suppressant RST provides is mixed into water and then applied to all the major haul roads, at Phalanndwa Colliery, using the mine’s water bowser. This is done under the supervision of an RST site foreman to make sure that it is applied efficiently and safely. “We also use a sweeper, which removes the loose material on the haul road, which is the predominant cause of the dust when trucks drive on it,” he adds.  The dust suppressant is applied once or twice a week depending on how much deterioration has occurred to the road during the course of the week. Thulani says, “As a local company, we are thrilled to be given an opportunity at Phalanndwa Colliery and we appreciate the opportunity, especially during these difficult times where so many companies have been negatively impacted by COVID-19. Canyon Coal is showing that it is possible to support local business and not expect standards to be dropped.” 