Orion Minerals has reported highly encouraging results from its maiden drilling program across the Koperberg – Carolusberg line of intrusions at the Okiep Copper Project (OCP) in the Northern Cape, South Africa. All assay results have been received from the Company’s maiden 25 hole diamond drilling program at Okiep, with the drilling confirming historically reported drill results and establishing the presence of shallow high-grade copper mineralisation across the project. In addition, Orion’s first greenfields exploration hole at Okiep intersected veins and massive sulphide lenses of pyrrhotite–chalcopyrite in drill core within a magnetite rich, mafic intrusive host, with assays confirming the presence of copper mineralisation with significant strong nickel credits. Orion’s Managing Director and CEO, Errol Smart, commented: “We are delighted with the outcome of our maiden drilling program at Okiep. The results we’ve received to date have exceeded our expectations, demonstrating the presence of widespread near surface copper mineralisation across the project and reinforcing what we have always thought – that Okiep represents an exceptional growth opportunity for Orion. “The drilling focused initially along the Koperberg – Carolusberg line of intrusives and saw a total of 25 holes completed, 10 of which intersected high-grade mineralisation. The Carolusberg area was the biggest contributor to historical production at Okiep and our drilling here has confirmed the tenor and grade of mineralisation. “These drill results infill and confirm the previous Newmont and Goldfields era drilling that outline an extensive, unmined near surface swarm of copper mineralised mafic dykes and lenses. This drilling will now be followed up with further infill and extension drilling to enable future resource estimation. “Importantly the mineralisation intersected has strong similarity to the near surface mineralisation mined along strike at the Carolusberg Mine, which was the largest mine of the district.” “We are also very pleased with the results from the first hole at Nous that is following upon targets identified from the SkyTEMTM survey. The higher pyrrhotite content sulphides discovered are nickel rich and present an exciting new opportunity. With strong market outlook and the LME nickel price currently more than three times the copper price, a potential nickel credit can be very valuable.”