When AIM-listed gold junior Hummingbird Resources was formed in 2005, it set out to be a leading multi-asset, multi-jurisdiction gold mining company. The development of its Kouroussa mine in Guinea is not only realising this vision but is also key to the company’s objectives to mine in a sustainable and responsible manner. GERARD PETER finds out more from MD DAN BETTS. Hummingbird currently has two core gold projects: the Yanfolila mine in Mali which poured first gold in 2017 and Kouroussa, which Betts expects will more than double the company’s current gold production when in full solid-state production. The company also has a controlling interest in the Dugbe project in Liberia that is being developed by Pasofino Gold through an earn-in agreement. Hummingbird acquired Kouroussa from Cassidy Gold Corp. in September 2020 and was granted the mining licences by the Guinean government in May 2021. “Cassidy had done a lot of good work before we took over. However, their business model was different, and they were keen to start producing gold as soon as possible and even built a small-scale plant. “We decided to take a more long-term approach. So, we took a step back and remodelled the resource, looked at all the engineering requirements and what would be the best process flow sheet and then set upon designing the plant,” explains Betts. The project is situated in the Siguiri Basin in Guinea and currently comprises two key deposits, Koekoe (KK) and Kinkine (KnK), with several other high priority targets identified for further exploration and resource growth potential. Kouroussa currently has a mineral resource of 1.2 Moz of gold at 3 g/t. The KK open pit currently maiden reserve is 408 900 oz at 4.38 g/t; however, Betts points out that this figure is heavily diluted because the geology is quite complex. “As a result, we added a 30% dilution factor to the resource. So, there really is a lot of gold at the project and that is the overwhelming attraction of Kouroussa for us.” And whilst the defined resource and reserve base are currently relatively small, Betts says this should increase once the company releases the results of a recent infill drilling programme in Q2, 2022.04.22 Earlier this year, construction started at the site. “Currently, we are developing the infrastructure. We’ve got about 350 people on site preparing the camp and laying foundations,” Betts explains. Meanwhile, construction equipment, tooling, machinery, and consumables have continued to arrive and are in position on site to start the overall build process. In addition, long lead item purchases are being finalised, including the SAG mill, jaw crusher, ore feeders, agitators, interstage screens, tower crane and cyclone cluster. The pit dewatering team is also on site, and works have commenced to further stabilise the key mining deposits for future mining operations. Mining at Kouroussa will be undertaken by a contract miner, Betts explains, with the mining process to comprise a carbon-in-leach (CIL) plant with a crushing circuit to allow for the processing of oxide/fresh rock blend from different parts of the pit. The mine is forecast to produce an average of between 120 000 and 140 000 for the first three years of production and an average of 100 000 ozpa over an initial seven-year life of mine. However, Betts is confident that with ongoing exploration, the life of mine will be extended to ten years. A social licence to operate As stated earlier, Hummingbird is committed to ensuring sustainable and responsible mining that benefits all stakeholders. To that end, it conducted in Q3 2021 an updated environmental and social impact assessment (ESIA) study to ensure that Kouroussa delivers on leading ESG industry standards and the World Gold Council’s Responsible Gold Mining Principles. An important component will be to reduce the mine’s carbon footprint. Already, Hummingbird is looking at ways to power the mine using ‘green’ energy solutions, including the installation of a 7 MW solar power plant. “Furthermore, we are looking at installing a filter press operated dry stacked tailings facility rather than a traditional tailings dam. While this is a much bigger investment, I believe this is the way the industry must go if we are to reduce our carbon footprint,” Betts adds. No doubt Kouroussa will create employment opportunities for Guineans as well as contribute to socio-economic development in the region. However, at the same time, Betts cautions that it is important to manage the expectations of mining communities. “The social licence to operate concept is complicated and includes several objectives such as employment welfare, health, education and alternative livelihoods. “Key to getting this right is community engagement and getting people to understand what a mine is and what its limits are. Mines are generally the only profit centre in remote regions, but they cannot solve all the problems for everyone. As such, it is also imperative that the government is on board to use the taxes generated from mining operations to benefit all,” Betts states. Keeping track of responsible mining Another commendable initiative that Hummingbird has implemented is the Single Mine Origin (SMO), of which the company is a founding member. SMO proves to end users that gold has been produced by a legitimate mining operation, where miners are being paid a just wage and there is no exploitation. SMO gold provides a traceable and auditable chain of custody for every gram of gold produced directly to the mine where the gold was sourced, something that has not been done before. “For example, you can go into a jewellery shop in London and purchase a ring with a QR code on it. By scanning your phone over the code, a customer can find out where the gold was mined, that no child labour was involved, as well as get information on the positive impact that a mine’s operations has had on people, communities, and countries,” Betts explains. Already Endeavour’s Ity mine in Côte d’Ivoire has signed up to SMO and Betts is hoping to get other gold mining companies to join the SMO initiative. “Soon consumers will ask if their jewellery has been made from SMO gold. We don’t want to become a policeman of the industry. Rather we want to give the industry an opportunity to showcase itself and the good work it does,” Betts concludes.