Amid a worldwide pandemic, Anglo American continues to provide COVID-19 support to where it’s most needed, ensuring that its employees and its host communities are safeguarded from the coronavirus. The COVID-19 pandemic posed unprecedented challenges to all companies, both commercially and as employers and drivers of broader economic activity and was felt most acutely in those communities that play host to Anglo American’s operations. A key undertaking that the company has embarked on is its WeCare programme, an extensive health awareness and broader support programme designed specifically to help protect the health and well-being of its more than 95 000 employees, contractors, and host communities. WeCare is helping employees and communities better understand how to protect themselves and others from catching the virus, monitor their health to pick up early symptoms, and manage their well-being. In July 2021, the company embarked on its workplace vaccination programme. By September, subsidiary Anglo-American Platinum had vaccinated more than 16 000 employees and contractors with their first vaccine doses. More than 3 000 employees and contractors also received their second vaccine dose. In addition to its four main vaccination sites in the North West and Limpopo – Amandelbult, Mogalakwena Complex, Mototolo and Rustenburg – Anglo American Platinum also has an additional four satellite vaccination sites at its operations in these provinces. The company has also extended its workplace vaccination programme to include the dependents of every employee and contractor. All sites are equipped with vaccination counselling staff that are available to address individual concerns, including vaccine hesitancy. To drive further uptake of vaccines and to address vaccine hesitancy, Anglo American Platinum has successfully hosted a number of vaccine days, in partnership with government and labour, across its operations. Furthermore, Anglo American is also making available up to US$30 million of support towards the global rollout of COVID-19 vaccines across its operational footprint. The company’s support is expected to include contributions towards the procurement of vaccines by host governments, as well as logistical support and health and other infrastructure required to facilitate the efficient rollout of vaccines. Mark Cutifani, CEO of Anglo American, says, “The success of the global vaccine rollout is dependent on how we come together, in the spirit of solidarity, to make vaccines available to all. The more of us that are vaccinated, the safer we will all be and the more quickly we can help rebuild our economies.” In addition, Anglo American has designed a wide-ranging community response plan to support communities through the social and economic effects of the pandemic, including public information campaigns aimed at health and hygiene; health screening and COVID-19 testing; support for health service provision; continuation and expansion of essential services (e.g. water, energy, accommodation); food package distribution; support for small and medium sized enterprises (SMEs) and entrepreneurs; support for teachers and students; job training; and regional development planning.