As the custodian of all geoscience data in South Africa, the Council for Geoscience (CGS) plays a key role in creating mining opportunities in the country. Under the leadership of CEO MOSA MABUZA, CGS has now developed a strategy that is helping to unlock more mining exploration potential, attract international investment and assist the government in realising its National Development Plan 2030 goals. GERARD PETER reports. This year CGS celebrates its 110th anniversary. It is one of the National Science Councils of South Africa and is the legal successor of the Geological Survey of South Africa, which was formed in 1912. The organisation was established in accordance with the Geoscience Act of 1993 and reports to the Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy. RELATED:Mining Elites in Africa 2022 Showcase: Council for GeoscienceCouncil for Geoscience: Laying the foundation for exploration When it comes to the mining sector, its mandate is to provide precompetitive geological information which is the precursor to exploration work carried out by mining companies. In explaining the importance of his organisation, Mabuza states: “CGS is a national asset. South Africa is a mining economy, and this is evidenced by the fact that mining has been a key contributor in the recovery of the South African economy following the COVID-19 pandemic. The major world-class deposits that we have been mining for over a century are a direct consequence of the value of geoscience to society.” Mabuza is full of praise for the work that the geoscientists of the past have conducted, particularly those who hail from an era before the advent of modern technology. “These individuals did not have vehicles or technology such as GPS. Instead, they went around on horseback or walked to study the geology of the country purely out of love for the subject. The work that they undertook resulted in the discovery of various types of minerals that are benefitting us today. They were the creators of the knowledge we now have and as CGS, we have responsibility to take it to another level,” he states. Strategy gets the thumbs up Since Mabuza took the helm in 2017, he has ensured that his organisation collaborates with industry and government to attract investment in exploration activities. In fact, CGS put forward a value proposition to the government that the country would be able to attract 5% of global exploration spend by 2025. However, he advises that this will only be possible if government puts certain measures in place. “We need government to design and invest in programmes that will help us to achieve this objective and the centre of this ambition is precompetitive geological information.” He goes on to state that there is sufficient evidence that shows that investing in geoscience can be of great benefit to a country. “In fact, there is an economic model that has been proven in many countries which shows that for every US$1 spent on geoscience under the right conditions, it can amass $5 in the medium term (three to five years) while the long term (20+) return on investment once a discovery is made is $120.” Furthermore, together with the Minerals Council South Africa, CGS developed an Exploration Strategy that was proposed to the government and finally approved in March. “The work that we have done with the Minerals Council is like getting athletes prepared for a race but without government approval. We were being held back and couldn’t implement this strategy. However, now that we have government’s buy-in, we can engage with various stakeholders from both government and the private sector. What is now required is for all stakeholders to roll up their sleeves so that we can work towards achieving the target we have set,” Mabuza explains. 4IR creates opportunities Technology has been an enabler for the CGS and has allowed the organisation to carry out its work in a more precise and efficient manner. To that end, the organisation has bought drones to assist in its mapping activities. It is also training 20 pilots to operate the drones. On occasion, the CGS enlists the assistance of the South African Air Force to help pilot the drones in areas that it has identified as high priority. In addition, the CGS has collaborated with the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR) to use high performance computing to process the data that CGS acquires at high speeds. The organisation has also invested in a hyperspectral scanner which is a first for the African continent. Such a scanner allows users to digitally capture their core samples, which can then be downloaded and sent to anywhere in the world. Using 3D imaging software, these samples can then be analysed in real-time and can pick up characteristics that the geoscientist in the field may have missed. “There is no doubt that technology substantially enhances our efficiencies and the quality of work that we do. These are a just a few technologies that we have introduced that will help us in the execution of our mandate,” Mabuza adds. A key component of the CGS’s activities is collecting data. However, of equal importance is disseminating this data and making it readily available to interested parties, including mining companies. It is with this in mind that the CGS launched its data portal in July 2021. Over 75% of the information is freely available while some of it is sold at a nominal fee. The portal not only provides the data, but it also allows geologists and geoscientists to extract and process the data in whichever way they want. In addition, the portal is also proving to be useful to university students and lecturers who also access the data for academic purposes. “While we are the custodians of geoscientific data, it is equally important that this data is readily available to ordinary citizens,” Mabuza adds. He points out that there has been a significant increase in people accessing the data portal and many of these come from outside the country. In fact, the project has been such a success that other similar geological survey organisations around the world have contacted Mabuza asking for assistance in setting up a similar portal. Mapping on a larger scale The key to discovering new resource potential lies in mapping. When Mabuza became CEO, he made it a priority to map the country on a finer scale of 1:50 000. At the time of his appointment in 2017 only 3% of the country had been mapped on that scale; today almost 10% has been mapped. Furthermore, Mabuza also put plans in place to conduct offshore (marine) mapping, something that the CGS didn’t pay much attention to in the past. Mabuza avers that offshore mapping has been completely neglected in South Africa. To start the process, in 2020, the organisation acquired a small research vessel named R/V Nkosi to ramp up its offshore mapping programme. The vessel can travel up to 28 km into the ocean. “RV/Nkosi has already mapped past Robben Island in Cape Town and we now have a better understanding of our nearshore marine structures,” Mabuza states. However, mapping further into the ocean requires the use of larger expensive vessels which CGS does not own. It was with this in mind that the organisation has entered partnerships with the South African Navy and the coastal division of the Department of Environment, Forestry and Fisheries to use their vessels for offshore mapping activities. Mapping activities are carried out by mounting environment-friendly equipment on a vessel and conducting seismic surveys of the ocean floor. “By partnering with these two entities, we can significantly reduce the time it would take to do mapping and also reduce our expenses in this regard,” Mabuza explains. One of the vessels CGS intended to use was the SAS Protea survey ship. However, it has since been retired and while a replacement is being built, Mabuza states that CGS is making use of the Navy’s smaller motorboats to focus on nearshore mapping. “We hope to map 0.3% in the next financial year and in doing so, it is hoped that we can optimise the mineral resources that can be found in our oceans.” While the CGS has a key role to play in the mining sector and the country at large, few know about the work that it carries out including mining investors and even those in the geoscience community. As such, Mabuza and his team are active participants in mining conferences around the country and in engaging at a community level to make young people aware of the CGS and its mandate. “We took a deliberate view that CGS belongs to the people of South Africa and so it is our duty to raise the brand of the organisation. Making our information available to all is the best way for people to learn about who we are. “The level of exploration is not where it should be in South Africa. We are hoping that by getting our message out there, it will attract investment and will see exploration activities taking off in the country,” he concludes.