The Board of Vedanta has approved an Investment of R7 billion investment towards the expansion of Gamsberg Mine to double up its production capacity in the Northern Cape Province, South Africa a vision to produce ‘Green Metal’. The investment will enable Gamsberg mine to double its annual ore capacity from 4 Mt to 8 Mt and build another 4 Mt Concentrator Plant to produce an additional ~200,000 tonnes of Zinc Metal in Concentrate. With this expansion, Vedanta Zinc International (VZI), South Africa, will become the largest zinc producer in Africa, with an annual production of ~500,000 tonnes of Zinc Metal in Concentrate. Vedanta Chairman Anil Agarwal says: “I am very pleased to see this growth investment, which shows our commitment to Northern Cape and South Africa. I  look forward to seeing this flagship Project come into production as soon as possible to make a significant socio-economic contribution to our host communities. “This Project will double up current Gamsberg production and create thousands of jobs. We have witnessed unprecedented socio-economic benefits with the success of the Gamsberg phase I. “ Since its official opening and inauguration by President Cyril Ramaphosa in 2019, Gamsberg mine has been instrumental in creating employment opportunities and improving livelihoods. There are over 1,200 permanent personnel currently employed at the Gamsberg Mine. Gamsberg Phase 2 (R7 billion investment) will create 1 500 – 2000 jobs at its peak during the construction phase and will create 800 – 1000 permanent jobs during operations. “This investment approval indicates VZI’s commitment to keep growing even amid a pandemic that has halted majority growth investments and threatened the survival of companies across various industries,” says VZI Executive Director and CFO, Pushpender Singla. “This investment is a sign of our commitment to partnering with the Northern Cape Government. It also serves as the beginning of new business opportunities with some of the local businesses and a continuation of partnerships with other small companies in the province. In addition, this Project will form part of the Namakwa Special Economic Zone, which will contribute and grow secondary industries.” Guided by the philosophy of ‘Zero Harm, Zero Waste, Zero Discharge’, VZI focuses on delivering sustainable and responsible growth to create value for all its stakeholders. “Accordingly, during last year, in Jul 2021, we have announced an investment of ZAR 600mn into Magnetite Project. This Project will recover iron ore (magnetite) from the BMM tailings to significantly reduce tailings disposal u pto 1Mt. This process will produce high-quality Magnetite with Fe grade > 65%.  The first production is expected in September of 2022. This Project will create  360 during construction and 250 permanent jobs.” Adds Singla. These investments will also see Vedanta’s ‘Business with Purpose’ model unlock new community projects that will enable the mine to invest in better education, health and skills development programmes in the Northern Cape.