ZAC held a celebratory event on 14 October 2021 to mark a significant safety milestone for the mine’s employees. ZAC as of 30 September 2021 recorded over 5000 fatality-free production shifts (FFPS). Menar’s COO for Anthracite Bradley Hammond stated: “Mine safety is ZAC and Menar’s top priority. Safeguarding our employees and contractors to ensure they return home safe and healthy every day is essential to achieving Zero Harm At ZAC.” Furthermore, historical data shows that most accidents at mines are reported during the last quarter of the year. This period is very difficult as far as health and safety is concerned and is commonly known as ‘Silly Season/ Critical Season’. ZAC, therefore, decided to initiate a campaign with an objective to proactively prevent incidents from happening, focusing on current issues and challenges with the potential to cause injuries and fatalities. RELATED:Nhlanhla rises in the ranksMzophethwe reaches for his dreamsZinhle Nkabinde becomes the first woman Shift Boss at Outcrop Shaft “The initiative intends to also empower employees to comply to basic requirements by ensuring participation by all in order to achieve the goal of Zero Harm at our operation. The campaign aims to reemphasise the health and safety culture of ZAC, and provide employees with the knowledge so that they can pro-actively perform their activities safely,” explained ZAC Safety Manager Sipho Nkosi during the launch of the campaign. The theme of the campaign is “Work Safely, Our Family is Waiting for Us at Home”. Mine staff members were asked for the sake of their families to pledge to: ZAC General Manager Wayne Rowe highlighted that in the past 10 years there have been no fatalities at ZAC. “This is testament to the emphasis the mine places on the safety of all mineworkers. Many of us are thinking of the festive season and even the year ahead and what it may hold, but it is crucial to maintain our standards and adhere to safety procedures,” he stated. I-ZAC ibungaza ama-shift angu-5 000 kungafanga muntu, yethula umkhankaso wezokuphepha iSilly Season Ngomhla ka-14 ngoMfumfu wezi-2021, iZAC ibe nomcimbi wokubungaza ama-shift angu-5 000 kungabanga bikho sisigameko sokufa komuntu emayini. UMnu uBradley Hammond oyi-COO yeMenar emayini uthe: “Ukuphepha eZAC nase Menar kuseqhulwini. Ukuvikela abasebenzi bethu nosonkontileka nokuqinisekisa ukuthi babuyela emakhaya bephephile futhi bephilile kubalulekile emgomweni wethu wokuthi kungalimali muntu eZAC.” Ulwazi ngezigameko zangaphambilini luveza ukuthi izingozi eziningi emayini zenzeka ngekota yokugcina yonyaka. Lesi sikhathi sonyaka sinzima kwezempilo nezokuphepha futhi saziwa nge-‘Silly Season / Critical Season’. Yingakho iZAC yasungula umkhankaso ngenhloso yokunqanda izingozi zingenzeki, ngokubheka izinkinga ezikhona nezingqinamba ezingaholela ekulimaleni noma ekufeni kwabantu. “Inhloso yalo mkhankaso ukugqugquzela abasebenzi ukuthi balandele imigobo ukuze kufezeke iphupho lethu lokuthi kungalimali muntu emayini yethu. Lo mkhankaso uhlose kugcizelela isiko lezempilo nezokuphepha leZAC, nokufundisa abasebenzi ukuqinisekisa ukuthi benza umsebenzi wabo ngendlela ephephilr,” kuchaza uMnuz Sipho Nkosi obhekelele ezokuphepha e-ZAC. Isiqubulo somkhankaso besithi: “Sebenza Ngendlela Ephephile, Imindeni Yethu Isilindile Emakhaya”. Abasebenzi bacelwa ukuba basayinde isibophezelo sokuthi: UMnuz Wayne Rowe  , oyiMenenja Jikelele, uveze ukuthi eminyakeni eyishumi edlule akukaze kufe muntu eZAC. “Lokhu kuwubufakazi bomsebenzi wemayini ukuqinisekisa ukuphepha kwabasebenzi. Abaningi bethu bacabanga ngamaholide okuphela konyaka, nangonyaka ozayo ukuthi uza nani, kodwa kubalulekile ukugcina izinga lezokuphepha silandela imigomo ebekiwe,” usho kanje.