Having met all conditions of the UK Government Investment Security Unit, Ionic Rare Earths has completed its acquisition of Seren Technology. The acquisition of SerenTech complements IonicRE’s strategy of becoming a vertically integrated participant in the formation of new magnets and heavy rare earth supply chains emerging across Europe and North America. The integration of the two companies will see extensive activities such as the installation of a pilot plant for demonstrations and modeling for IonicRE’s standalone REE separation and refinery among others. According to the announcement, these activities will take place over the coming 12 months. RELATED:Ionic Rare Earths completes $30 million placementIonicRE finalises acquisition of Seren TechnologiesIonic Rare Earths and Seren Technologies forge aheadIonic Rare Earth’s Makuutu: A key player in the green energy revolution SerenTech’s process uses an alternative and more environmentally benign extractant, an optimised ligand, for rare earth metal extraction, separation, and processing. “The advantage of the technology developed by SerenTech is to provide the potential for magnets REEs to be extracted from lower quality and variable grade magnets, to then be recycled into newer higher content REE containing permanent magnets, used in higher-value applications. “The ionic liquid is fully recyclable to the extent the ligand can be considered a capital rather than operational cost. There are no toxic waste products, and there is a potential to tune the ligands to focus on pairings or groupings of rare earths, giving greater flexibility in approaching the separation of rare earths from mining feed sources” the announcement read. The company’s work to date has demonstrated the capability for REEs to achieve near-complete extraction from lower quality spent magnets and waste (swarf) to near-complete recovery to high-value rare earth oxide (REO) product quality exceeding 99.9% REO. The acquisition presents a potential opportunity to provide a first-mover advantage post-acquisition to IonicRE, in the industrial elemental extraction of REEs from spent magnets and waste, enabling near-term magnet REO production capability to satisfy growing demand and lagging new supply chains.