West Africa’s constituent countries have the potential to become part of the new, green economy. Ghana has always possessed a rich cultural heritage and spirit of innovation, which over the past few decades has begun to translate into a willingness to embrace and drive new technologies and industries. This spirit has seen Africa become a hotbed for economic and commercial growth, with the continent housing seven of the world’s fastest-growing economies. Lithium extraction presents another fast-growing industry for West Africa to embrace and advance. Ghana serves as an example of a country with an abundance of natural resources of significant interest to drive new technologies like electric vehicles. Research consistently shows that with enough investment, Ghana could become a key player in lithium extraction, helping to supply resources that are necessary for the realisation of a greener future. At Atlantic Lithium, we are proud that our flagship Ewoyaa Lithium Project is set to become West Africa’s first lithium producing mine, playing an important role in the world’s production of lithium. Ewoyaa, an industry-leading lithium project, is located within 110 km of the Takoradi port and 100 km of Accra. It is fully funded to production under an agreement with Piedmont Lithium for US$103 million. The project benefits from impressive local infrastructure and requires simple DMS processing delivering robust economics. With potential life of mine revenues exceeding $3.4 billion, a post-tax NPV8 of $789 million, and an IRR of 194% over an initial life of mine of just 11.4 years, the project is one of the most exciting in the lithium industry today. Strong financial footing Expected to deliver an average 300 000 tpa of premium 6% Li2O spodumene concentrate, 50% of the forecasted annual production has already been earmarked for the US markets via an offtake agreement with Piedmont Lithium, which has established relationships with Tesla and other US-based auto makers. RELATED:Atlantic Lithium appoints advisor for secondary listing on ASXAtlantic Lithium appoints Lennard Kolff as interim CEOEwoyaa lithium resource increases by a further 42% The offtake agreement is in line with the Piedmont’s investment in Atlantic to fully fund Ewoyaa to production. Atlantic retains a 50% free carry in the project which, combined with the strong cash balance secured through the funding agreement, puts Atlantic in an excellent position to drive the development of the project, and continue to expand and mature as a company. With only 13 km2 of our 560 km2 tenure portfolio in Ghana drilled to date, the exploration upside available is vast. Our staff’s expertise also makes us confident in our ability to realise the total benefits the project has to offer. The senior management team at Atlantic not only has a strong understanding of the lithium industry but also extensive experience of working within Africa. Iwan Williams, our exploration manager, is a geologist with over 20 years’ experience across a range of commodities. His experience includes all aspects of exploration management, project generation, opportunity reviews, due diligence and mine geology. He has spent 23 years of his 28-year geological career in Africa. He is joined by Abdul Razak, our principal geologist, who has significant exploration, resource evaluation and project management experience throughout West Africa with a strong focus on data rich environments. He has extensive gold experience having worked throughout Ghana with AngloGold Ashanti, Goldfields Ghana, Perseus, and Golden Star, as well as international exploration and resource evaluation experience in Burkina Faso, Liberia, Ivory Coast, Republic of Congo, Nigeria, and Guinea. Our Africa-centric approach means that we not only seek to involve local communities in our processes, but also ensure that they reap the benefits of our operations. One of the ways we have done this is by encouraging and maximising local employment. Roughly 98% of our staff in country are Ghanaian nationals. We not only employ local labourers, drivers, and cleaners, but also high-level technical jobs such as geologists, field technicians, health, safety, and environmental managers, along with fully trained in-house lab technicians. This will help create a pool of knowledge and know-how within Ghana that can be transferred to other industries, ensuring the long-term prosperity of local communities. We also support local universities through field trips, vacation work students and student support, furthering our commitment to the future of the extractive industries and communities within Ghana. Sustainability takes centre stage In addition, Atlantic Lithium sponsors several community initiatives, including the construction of durbor (market) grounds, as well as local events and celebrations such as Farmers Day and Independence Day, through the donation of transport, food, and drinks. Through our commitment to local communities, we hope to have a lasting beneficial impact: driving local economic development as well as prosperity and stability. Sustainability is of key importance to us, which is why we employ most of our employees from local areas around the site. 85% of our employees come from the project district: Mankessim, Saltpond and Cape Coast. This not only helps reduce carbon emissions from travel, but also means that most of our employees can go home at night, aiding the creation of financially and culturally sustainable and viable communities. We have set up local nurseries that employ a caretaker from the Ewoyaa and Abonko villages. Planted seedlings are used to revegetate drill pads and access tracks for erosion control and slope stability. With production from the mine expected in the coming years, we are also developing rigorous plans to help mitigate our carbon footprint, ensuring that we do our part to help make Ghana as green and prosperous as possible. To this end, we are also a member of the Chamber of Mines, a government agency designed to ensure that the highest standards are upheld within the mining industry, placing a particular emphasis upon transparency and good corporate citizenship. Our goals closely align with the Chamber, and we look forward to contributing to the organisation in the months and years to come. As we look to bring the project into production, our role in enhancing the lives of the local community will remain key. We are excited by the prospect of working closely with our Ghanaian counterparts to deliver maximum value for all stakeholders and playing a role in delivering a more sustainable future. We are looking forward to bringing the project to fruition and watching the transformative effect our project will have on the local community and economy as we work together to help transform Ghana into West Africa’s first green hub.