In 2020, Minister of Minerals and Energy Gwede Mantashe stated that South Africa is aiming to attract 5% of global exploration expenditure by 2025. Key to realising this target is the Council for Geoscience (CGS). CEO Mosa Mabuza explains that CGS is the custodian of all geoscience data and knowledge in South Africa, both on and offshore. The work that it carries out is the precursor to exploration carried out by mining companies. “We invest in precompetitive geological information and there is a direct correlation between gathering this information and the appetite for the international investment community to invest in exploration in our country,” he states. Reporting to the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy, Mabuza and his team develop programmes and motivate for the areas that CGS would like to map out and collect data. “Onshore, the entire country is mapped at a scale of 1:250 000. This has led to many discoveries of gold, platinum, manganese etc. “All of those have been found on the basis of access to geological information generated by CGS that the private sector will then take and permute in a particular way and will then do detailed geology research in a particular area of interest and ultimately make a discovery,” adds Mabuza. Mabuza avers those major mineral resources using the current mapping scale have already been discovered, not only in South Africa but throughout the world. It is for this reason that internal organisation like CGS have now moved on to a finer scale of mapping, 1:50 000. This has already borne fruit in Australia and Canada and currently these two countries attract about 35% of the global exploration budget. However, this is an area where South Africa has been found wanting. When Mabuza took over the reigns at CGS in 2016, only 3% of the country had been mapped on that scale. “It is for this reason that I quickly worked with my team to put together a whole strategic reorientation of CGS and impressed on the government the importance of South Africa investing in augmenting the coverage of the country, at least onshore initially, at that sort of scale. “We argued that it is very important that exploration activities are encouraged as it is the lifeblood of the mining industry going forward, particularly today when there are new types of minerals that are in demand. Mabuza points out that CGS’s current successes are in large part due to the work that his predecessors have done. “I am standing on the shoulders of giants and my predecessors have really done a fantastic job of mapping. As such, we are not starting completely from scratch and know which areas have high potential and are optimising the resources that we have.” One region that is attracting interest because of the data collected by CGS is the Northern Cape. Here, its geologists have mapped a large rock formation that extends into neighbouring Namibia. They have already mapped 67% of the area and have confirmed the presence of lithium in the rock formation. Mabuza explains that when this information was made public, the DMRE started to receive a number of applications from the private sector to explore the area. In keeping with global trends, CGS ensures that it uses the most sophisticated geoscience instruments and technologies in its operations. This includes a variety of satellite imagery and aerial monitoring equipment. The incorporation of these technologies means CGS can map the earth like never before. Furthermore, in July last year, CGS created a data portal that interested parties can access. “The portal not only provides the data, but it also allows geologists and geoscientists to extract and process the data in whichever way they want,” explains Mabuza. Mabuza is confident that the work that CGS is doing will change the landscape of South Africa’s mining industry going forward. “We are blessed with the most amazing geology in the world, and we are now realising that with the potential that this country has, we have only just begun to scratch the surface. If the information that we have leads to a major discovery, I am certain you will then see a flock of investment coming into the country,” he concludes.