South African underground mining industry has long been faced with a worrisome increase in fall of ground (FOG) related fatalities. An investigation into the leading causes of fatalities in 2020, revealed that fall of ground incidents accounted for 36% of fatalities in the industry. Minerals Council South Africa recently hosted what it refers to as Fall of Ground Action Plan Day of Learning, with the aim to curb the now seemingly decreasing number. The event saw several mining companies in full attendance to grasp lessons on how to nip the common challenge. Opening the programme, Dr Sizwe Phakathi Head of Safety and Sustainable Development at MCSA pronounced a moment of silence for the fallen miners. “In safety we don’t compete. We all must work together in finding solutions” he said. According to a presentation given by MCSA geologist Chris Lehodi, drilling, installing support, cleaning, and barring, were the leading activities where FOG fatalities take place. Having interviewed a group of 300 miners from platinum and gold mines, a report indicated that miners were reluctant of applying Section 22 and 23 of the MHSA (which stipulates those workers have the right to withdraw from dangerous workings) fearing to be threatened with disciplinary measures. Among other factors contributing to FOG fatalities, are labour and material shortages, lack of safety incentives and issues of communication. “Rock engineers sometimes lack communication. It is always important that they thoroughly explain hazards to the crew.” said Adwoa Issaka Mineral Council South Africa MOSH Learning Hub. Issaka added that these challenges were not only technical, but people’s behavioral patterns and the systems they put in place. In a proposed action plan, the Council highlighted six pillars to tackle FOG challenges. The pillars are aimed at adopting leading practices such as minimizing rock mass damage from drilling and blast, and to eliminate the risk of people working under unsupported rock.  Research, skills development, and policy issues were also tabled. WATCH VIDEO Advanced Illumination and permanent netting came into the spotlight as they were highly recommended for FOG prevention. – In his presentation, Willem Gouws of Harmony Gold spoke of 14 lives that were saved due to the mine’s in-stope netting structures between 2019 and 2022. “It is important to understand that netting forms part of the integral support system, and it is only one of the components that are required in terms of making sure that falls of ground do not injure people. If you mine without nets, you do so at the peril of the people working for you. Netting saves lives” he said. Exxaro was hailed for their 5-year fatality free milestone. Speaking on how they achieved this, Dr Joseph Matjila -Group Manager of Safety and Health spoke of Exxaro’s approved corporate standard on the internal Section 54 inspection rate, which allows the company to identify areas of non-compliance or risk. We are celebrating 5 years of 0 (zero) fatality experiences in our mines today. We continue to prioritise safety within the workplace through continuous inspections and audits. pic.twitter.com/7djsXKvEYT Matjila also emphasised that taking personal responsibility is key. “We do not wait for the DMRE to come on to the mine show us where we have a safety risk or non-compliance, we do it ourselves. We believe that it is one of the key areas that have led us to having the sustained zero-harm journey,” he concluded. 