Eastinco Mining and Exploration, the exploration and development company developing its portfolio of African focused critical and strategic metal assets, announces an operational update on its tantalum-tin projects in Rwanda. Highlights: • 16 new pegmatite zones discovered during the geochemical soil sampling on the HCK joint venture in southern Rwanda.• A total of 18 pegmatite zones now identified on this project, supporting the previous evidence from artisanal mining activity indicating the presence of extensive tantalum-niobium mineralisation.• Prospecting on the HCK-1 target confirms pegmatite zone striking over 1,500m, with widths up to 100m in places. Work is continuing on the licence.• Environmental Management Plan completed over the HCK joint venture licence.• Musasa plant modifications implemented focusing on recycling material through the plant for improved recoveries and reducing power and water requirements.• Surface geological exploration is underway at Musasa to provide additional plant feed material.• International Tin Supply Chain Initiative (“ITSCI”) membership application submitted. Charles Bray, Chairman of Eastinco, stated: “I am pleased to provide this operational update on the projects in Rwanda and report that we have geological fieldwork underway at both the Musasa Mine and the southern joint ventures. Early observations from the completed work are encouraging. The extensive occurrence of potential tantalum-niobium bearing pegmatite zones across the HCK licence is very positive. We will now seek to establish an operating hub in the area to service the two joint ventures we have in the south. “Joining ITSCI will help us demonstrate that we are part of a responsible mineral supply chain, and also to implement our plans to establish a metal trading operation, and hence a second revenue stream. This will supplement revenue from production at the Musasa Mine, which we expect to come fully online shortly. “I look forward to updating our shareholders as we continue our work in Rwanda, building a vertically integrated operation. This will bring added value to the Company and our shareholders, as well as enabling us to ensure our operations deliver tangible benefits to our local communities.”