The years 2020 to 2022 have brought a major bleak outlook on the global economy. During a period when the world’s economy had been attempting to recover from 2018, the COVID-19 pandemic and the recent conflict between Russia and Ukraine kept pulling down. Amid this economic turmoil, gold has remained resilient and has been deemed a “safe haven” investment. The World Gold Council’s latest Gold Demand Trends Report has revealed that gold ETFs had their strongest quarterly inflows of 269t since Q3 2020, more than reversing the 173t annual net outflow from 2021 and driven in part by the rising gold price. Much of the commodity’s win was attributed to an increase in its mining. According to the report, the total gold supply increased by 4% year-on-year, as a result of strong mine production, which hit 856t. In addition, recycling rose 15% from the previous year, reaching 310t in response to higher gold prices. “The first quarter of 2022 has been a turbulent one, marked by geopolitical crises, supply chain difficulties and surging inflation. These global events and market conditions have solidified gold’s status as a safe haven holding, not just for investors but also for retail consumers thanks to its unique position as a dual-natured asset class,” commented Louise Street, Senior Analyst EMEA at the World Gold Council. The demand for gold in technology hit a four-year high of 82t, up 1% on Q1 2021. While the sector saw modest growth, it was not free from challenges. Major financial and industrial hubs such as Shanghai were under renewed lockdowns, which impacted the electronics supply chain. RELATED: The World Gold Council welcomes back Gold Fields The World Gold Council is a market development organisation that provides insights into the international gold markets, helping people to understand the wealth preservation qualities of gold. While China continues to follow its zero-covid policy, the jewelry sector’s gold demand fell 7% year on year to 474t. In India, a fall in the number of weddings and a lack of auspicious days in the first quarter had a direct impact on gold purchasing in the country. This, coupled with rising gold prices globally, prompted many Indian consumers to hold back on their purchases. Net buying by central banks more than doubled from the previous quarter, adding over 84t to official gold reserves during Q1 2022, with buying in the sector dominated by countries such as Egypt and Turkey. While 29% lower than Q1 2021, central banks continue to value gold’s performance during times of uncertainty. “Given the current market dynamics, investment demand is expected to remain strong as the combination of high inflation and heightened geopolitical tensions will likely fuel demand for gold amongst investors. On the other hand, consumers are facing the global cost of living crisis, meaning many will reconsider how they spend their money. While consumer demand has been recovering from covid-inflicted weakness, continued growth in jewelry demand could be stifled by rising costs and a general economic slowdown” he concluded.