How has the African mining industry changed over the past 20 years? Who better to ask than veteran mining journalist ARTHUR TASSELL, who spent the period from 1999 to 2020 covering mining in Africa. His view is that three of the most notable developments over these two decades have been the emergence of West Africa as a major gold producer, the resurrection of the once almost defunct Central African Copperbelt and the steady decline of South Africa as a mining ‘superpower’. Although I’ve lived virtually my entire life in Africa, until 1999 my acquaintance with the continent – discounting a few visits to Livingstone in Zambia and a short stay in Kenya – was entirely confined to the area south of the Zambezi. Then I became the editor of a relatively new magazine devoted to coverage of the African mining industry and my life changed virtually overnight. For the next six years (somewhat less so afterwards) I was frequently on the road, making visits into Africa every two months, mainly to mining ‘hotspots’ such as Zambia and the DRC, Ghana, Mali and Burkina Faso in West Africa, Tanzania in East Africa, and, of course, South Africa’s neighbouring states – Botswana, Namibia, and Zimbabwe. The overriding impression I got was that the continent’s mining industry, brought to its knees in the 1970s and 1980s in the immediate aftermath of the colonial era by ill-advised initiatives such as nationalisation, was undergoing a renaissance. West Africa Ghana, which I first visited in 2000, was a particular eye-opener for me, as it was a hive of activity. It was swarming with Australian and Canadian junior ‘explorers’, had already attracted the presence of gold majors such as Gold Fields and had produced at least one home-grown mining entrepreneur with a global reputation in the person of Sam Jonah. The high level of activity in Ghana was the portent of much more to come in the West African region. In the 1990s the country was not the only gold producer in the region, but it was the focus of attention. There was some production from Mali – Syama was producing on a relatively small scale and Sadiola came online in 1996 – but very little from countries such as Senegal, Burkina Faso, and Ivory Coast. How that has changed in the two decades since! Burkina Faso, for example, has gone from having no commercial scale gold mines in the early 2000s to perhaps 16 or 17 now, while Mali has some of the biggest gold mines in Africa in the shape of Barrick’s Loulo complex and B2Gold’s Fekola mine. West Africa now ranks as one of the biggest gold-producing regions in the world, with collective production in 2020 amounting to approximately 428 t compared to a total global mine production of 3 478 t. Further growth is on the horizon with many new mines under development across the region. Although many companies and individuals can share in the credit for West Africa’s remarkable rise as a gold producer, perhaps the ones who deserve the most recognition are Randgold Resources (now absorbed by Barrick) and its CEO Mark Bristow, the ‘architect’ of the amazing Morila mine (and many others since), and Endeavour Mining and its current CEO, Sébastien de Montessus. Bristow, who now heads Barrick, is one of the great characters of African mining, a larger-than-life figure with a taste for flying and big-game hunting who has also carried out some epic trips across Africa on motorbike. De Montessus is less colourful but no less successful and Endeavour is now the biggest gold miner in West Africa. My own trips to West Africa were mainly during the period 2000 to 2005 during which I was fortunate enough to visit just about every gold mine in Ghana, as well as most of those in Mali. I was particularly fascinated by Ghana’s Obuasi, the more-than-100-year-old operation that is now being revived by AngloGold Ashanti in terms of an approximately US$500 million project that could see production rising to more than 400 000 oz within several years. I visited the mine on three separate occasions and was always struck by its labyrinth of underground workings (going to a depth of 1 500 m), as well as its sprawling surface infrastructure. I also have a particularly vivid memory of visiting Chirano in 2002. My driver and I arrived there late at night, after having being delayed by torrential rain which made negotiating the access road – basically a dirt track through the Tano Suraw forest – a problematic and unpleasant experience. Our frazzled nerves were calmed by the mainly Australian geologists and technicians at the site (Chirano was then a Red Back Mining exploration project), who gave us a very warm welcome. The mine began production in 2005 and five years later became part of the Kinross group. The Copperbelt In the same year – 2000 – that I visited Ghana, I also took my first visit to the Zambian Copperbelt at a time when the copper mines were producing less than 250 000 t of copper a year, a figure drastically down on the peak of 750 000 t recorded around 30 years earlier. My visit came at an exciting time. The programme to privatise the mines – which had all become part of state copper miner ZCCM in the late 1960s and early 1970s when the Zambian government nationalised the operations of Anglo American and Roan Selection Trust – was in its final stages and, as a result, the Copperbelt was humming. The small and rather eccentric airport at Ndola, the gateway to the Copperbelt, was packed to the brim whenever a flight was arriving from or departing to Johannesburg; the lodges in Kitwe, Luanshya and Chingola catering for visiting mining executives, engineers and geologists were doing a brisk business; and there was much talk of the massive projects, most notably the Synclinorium at Nkana and Konkola Deep, that were going to transform the Copperbelt. Among the better-known companies which had acquired assets as part of the privatisation process were Anglo American, First Quantum, Anglovaal Mining and Metorex. Anglo American, of course, soon departed again from Zambia but not before it completed a huge feasibility study on Konkola Deep – indeed I well remember seeing the many volumes of the study when I visited the Anglo offices at Nchanga mine in Chingola. That first visit of mine to the Copperbelt was followed by many others over the next 15 or so years. I got to know the entire area very well, driving back and forth along the Copperbelt’s roads from Kabwe, north of Lusaka, right through to Solwezi in North-Western Province. The road from Chingola through to Solwezi over 180 km varied dramatically every time I took it and I well remember one trip where I seemed to spend more time driving – in a hired Corolla – on dirt tracks parallel to the deeply pot-holed main road than on the road itself. Amazingly, all the plant and equipment to build three new megamines was brought into North-Western Province via this grossly inadequate route. The conventional wisdom when I was first on the Copperbelt was that the Kansanshi and Lumwana deposits would never be developed due to the very low copper price (well under $1.00/lb at that time, as I recall), the relatively low grade of the deposits compared to the Copperbelt proper and the poor infrastructure in North-Western Province. Companies such as Equinox Resources and First Quantum were undeterred, however, and by 2005 Kansanshi was in production while Lumwana, now in the Barrick stable, followed in late 2008. As an aside, my first visit to Kansanshi was around 2001, when it had just been acquired by First Quantum from Phelps Dodge. I overnighted at the site, which was then just an exploration camp. Several years later I came back for the official opening of the mine and was stunned at the transformation, with Kansanshi, a huge open-pit operation, well on its way to becoming (for a time) Africa’s biggest copper producer (and, incidentally, a significant gold producer). Because of its development of Kansanshi and, later, Sentinel, First Quantum is the company that – in my view – can take the lion’s share of the credit for the rebirth of the Zambian Copperbelt and its extension into North-Western Province. Its rise has been meteoric. When I first got to know the company it had a single small retreatment operation at the century-old Bwana Mkubwa mine near Ndola. It went on to develop the Lonshi mine in Katanga (to provide feed to Bwana Mkubwa), the Kansanshi mine, the Frontier mine in the DRC (which was later seized by the DRC government and is today run by Eurasian Resources Group) and, finally, the mammoth Sentinel project, located 150 km west of Solwezi. Kansanshi and Sentinel between them produced an astonishing 434 000 t of copper in 2020. An interesting question to ask is whether, from the vantage point of 2022, the privatisation process can be considered a success. The answer must be ‘yes’ if one looks at the production numbers. The country produced 868 000 t in 2020 (more than three times the output of the late 1990s) and this is projected to rise to 900 000 t or more once the 2021 figures are in. It should be pointed out though that much of the new production is from the North-Western Copperbelt rather than the historic Copperbelt (and thus has little to do with the privatisation programme). It must also be said that relations between the copper mining companies, and the Zambian government have tended to be fractious – in the case of Vedanta catastrophically so as Konkola Copper Mines, in which it has a majority interest, was handed over to a liquidator in 2019, a matter which is currently under dispute. A big question mark also hangs over Mopani Copper Mines (whose assets include Mufulira and Nkana), with previous operator Glencore having recently sold its majority interest to ZCCM after disputes with the government over its suspension of mining operations in the wake of the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic. As a result of its poor relations with the copper mining industry, Zambia is currently held in low esteem by the mining investment community. On a more positive note, the new government of President Hakainde Hichilema seems keen to repair the damage to the mining sector (which was largely inflicted under his predecessor) and has expressed a desire to see copper production grow to as much as 3 Mtpa, which – I must confess – strikes me as a highly optimistic figure. It has also recently introduced a more minerals friendly tax regime. The resurgence in Zambia’s copper output over the past two decades has been matched and surpassed by the neighbouring DRC, which in 2020 produced an impressive 1.3 Mt. Here again the situation was abysmal around 2000 when Gécamines, the state copper miner and inheritor of the assets of the old Union Minière, managed to produce just 25 000 t of copper and a similar tonnage of cobalt from its many mines (while at the same time employing a vast workforce of around 25 000 people). I well remember visiting the famous mining town of Kolwezi in Katanga (now Lualaba) Province around this time and being struck by the utter ruin of the place. I can’t recall if there was any production from Kolwezi’s two big mines (the Kamoto underground mine and the giant KOV pit) but if there was it was minimal and certainly the huge processing plants were in a complete state of disrepair. When I next visited Kolwezi four of five years later the scene was transformed, and the town was pulsing with energy. The DRC’s mining sector was liberalised and opened to private companies in 2002 and since then copper production has increased in most years although controversies surrounding mining abound and there is a general lack of transparency in the mining sector, which has many shadowy players active in its ranks. Determining the ownership of many assets is often difficult but certainly Chinese companies – who tend to do very little reporting of their activities – have become increasingly dominant, reputedly now controlling 70% of the ‘old’ Central African Copperbelt stretching roughly from Lubumbashi through Likasi to Kolwezi. Of course, no mention of the DRC’s revival as a copper producing region would be complete without mentioning the giant – and well publicised Kamoa-Kakula project of Canada’s Ivanhoe Mines and its Chinese partner Zijin. Located just to the west of Kolwezi, Kamoa-Kakula represents an entirely new discovery just beyond the bounds of the traditional Central African Copperbelt and is regarded as one of the greatest copper discoveries ever in Africa and indeed globally. On a personal note, I can’t help mentioning the pioneering role played by Australia’s Anvil Mining in opening the DRC for mining investment after the years of conflict that the country had endured in the late 1990s and early 2000s. Then headed by the indefatigable Bill Turner, Anvil opened its Dikulushi copper mine in 2002. A small but very profitable operation over its relatively short life (since Anvil’s day it has gone through various changes of ownership and is now mothballed), it was the mine that established the DRC’s credentials as a reasonably friendly mining jurisdiction for global investors. I visited Dikulushi in the company of Bill in early 2003 shortly after it started production. Getting to the mine was a rather long and arduous process that involved flying in a light aircraft from Ndola to Nchelenge in Zambia’s Luapula Province, then taking a boat ride across Lake Mweru to the port of Kilwa in the DRC (perhaps 40 or 50 km), with the final stretch of the journey being in a four-wheel drive vehicle from the lake to the mine site. I had it easy though, compared to Bill. When he first travelled to the site, located about 400 km north of Lubumbashi, in 1996, the journey by road – a generous term for the tracks he had to traverse – took nine days. This was partly due to his vehicle breaking down but even under ideal circumstances it would have taken four days. Over the years I returned to the DRC on many occasions with my last trip to the country being in late 2017 to see the Bisie tin mine, developed in the tropical rainforests of North Kivu Province by Alphamin Resources. The company has pulled off a near miracle with Bisie, which was all but inaccessible when project development started, and which lies in a part of the Congo with a reputation for instability. All credit to Boris Kamstra (the then CEO of Alphamin) and his team for having brought into production a great underground tin mine which exploits the highest-grade tin deposit in the world. Alphamin’s shares, incidentally, have soared in value recently (increasing by around 400% over a 12-month period), reflecting not just the quality of Bisie but also a surging tin price. While West Africa and the Central African Copperbelt have generally been ‘good news’ stories over the past 20 years, the same, regrettably, cannot be said for South Africa, which is no longer regarded as Africa’s prime mining destination. The sad truth is that the country’s mining sector is a shadow of its former self. South Africa Much of the decline can be attributed to the fact that, after more than a century of intense mining, mineral reserves have been severely depleted, with the Witwatersrand goldfield now getting close to the end of its economic life. But certainly, the ANC government has not helped matters, with its ever-shifting BEE policies making the country unattractive to mining investors and with inefficiency and sometimes outright corruption plaguing the administration and granting of mining and exploration licences. Electricity supply is uncertain (although a whole raft of renewable energy projects will ease this situation in the medium to long term), organised labour is aggressive and criminal ‘mafias’ are increasingly targeting mining operations. The damage done to the industry over the past 30 years has been well documented but perhaps the most telling statistic that I’ve seen is that real mining GDP is smaller now than it was in 1994 even though there has been a ‘once-in-a-century’ commodity ‘supercycle’ in the intervening years. Exploration activity has also plummeted with South Africa now accounting for less than 1% of global exploration spend and it would probably be true to say that there has not been a major mineral find in the country since the discovery of the Venetia kimberlites more than 30 years ago. Of course, the mining scene in South Africa is not all gloom and doom. A new generation of black mining executives has taken over at some of the country’s leading mining companies and have performed very capably in managing the assets under their control. There are some world-leading projects under development such as Ivanhoe’s Platreef project and De Beers’ Venetia Underground project, and it remains an indisputable fact that South Africa is still the home of the biggest repository of mining skills in Africa. Moreover, relations between the organised mining industry and the government have vastly improved since the dark days of 2017 when the Minerals Council South Africa (or Chamber of Mines, as it was then) issued an unprecedented statement saying that it had lost confidence in the then Minister of Mineral Resources, Mosebenzi Zwane, and in his leadership of the DMR. The big question is whether the industry in South Africa can recapture its past glory. This seems unlikely to me – at least if we’re talking about getting back to the situation of 40 years ago when mining contributed around 19% of GDP (as opposed to 8.2 % at present). Nevertheless, there is scope for the mining sector to grow considerably from current levels of activity, as the Minerals Council has often pointed out. For this growth to occur the government – and other players and stakeholders – will have to work hard on making South Africa a more mining friendly jurisdiction. Whether the necessary steps will be taken is anybody’s guess. One can only hope so. Even in its slimmed down state, the mining industry is still a major part of the South African economy – it contributed R361 billion to GDP in 2020 and employed 451 000 people – and its health is crucial to the country’s future.