Imagine a coal miner taking the lead in the just transition to a green energy future. It may seem a bit far-fetched, but this is exactly what Exxaro is doing and has already achieved notable success in this regard. GERARD PETER asks ADVOCATE TSHEKO RATSHEKO, Exxaro’s group manager for environment, mining licensing and sustainability, exactly why the company is leading the sustainable mining revolution. For all intents and purposes, it is not the best time to be a coal miner, nor will it be in the future. As the world demands a cleaner energy mix, mining for this commodity is, for the most part, being frowned upon. In fact, most investors and funders are shying away from coal mining operations, particularly those who supply coal-fired power stations. It is therefore commendable that Exxaro, a major coal miner in South Africa, is leading in decarbonisation and renewable energy in the country. However, as Ratsheko points out, the decision to go this route is not a recent one. “Our sustainability journey started when the company was formed in 2006. Back then, we made a conscious decision to eventually move from coal mining into the renewable energy space,” he says. Key to driving this initiative, Ratsheko explains, is CEO designate Dr Nombasa Tsengwa. “Before joining Exxaro Tswenga was the deputy director-general in the Department of Environmental affairs. So, when she joined the company, she ensured that environmental management policies were embedded into Exxaro’s operations.” Today, Exxaro’s sustainability efforts are guided by its sustainability growth and impact strategy which is a response to the dual challenges of social inequality and the systemic impacts of climate change and increasing biodiversity loss – and which aims to transition Exxaro to a low carbon future. “Whilst climate change poses a potential existential threat to Exxaro’s coal business, it also provides for opportunities to develop a business response that can withstand the threats to climate change and reduce the negative cumulative impacts on society, in general and for our local communities, thus reducing prevalent socio-economic distress arising from inequality and poverty,” Ratsheko adds. RELATED:Exxaro scoops Best Sustainable Mining Leadership AwardExxaro’s commitment to gender equality earns top accolade The strategy is guided by five objectives. The first of these is transition at speed and scale. This entails a transition from coal to prospective investment opportunities (minerals and energy business) and maintaining Exxaro’s market competitiveness and societal role. The second objective is reducing the cost of coal mine closure by designing innovative and creative impact projects, thereby reducing the cost liability for Exxaro. In addition to commercial decarbonisation initiatives, the third objective seeks to create large-scale programmes to absorb and reduce Exxaro’s greenhouse gas emissions while creating employment opportunities. The fourth objective is to become a catalyst for economic growth and environmental stewardship. This includes land use and post-mine land use in the envisaged approaches that are based on science and best practice environmental stewardship. Finally, the fifth objective seeks to empower people to create impact. This includes empowering community cohorts, such as women, youth, and people with disabilities, through green skills development and enterprise development that will create new economic and employment opportunities. Exxaro has ensured that its objectives are aligned with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Ratsheko explains: “Exxaro voluntarily endorses the SDGs and aims to positively contribute to achieving these. Responsible environmental stewardship is material to our people, climate change and social/legal licence to operate. “Environmental stewardship refers to using the natural resources we rely on, responsibly. It addresses environmental risks relating to climate change concerns, water security, air pollution and biodiversity and land use. The related SDGs are SDG 7 (affordable and clean energy), SDG 11 (sustainable cities and communities); SDG 12 (responsible consumption and production); SDG 13 (climate action); and SDG 15 (life on land).” It all starts on the mines Another important initiative that Exxaro has undertaken is its mine decarbonisation programme. “The project has been established to coordinate, across all the mines, all activities to reduce our climate-related risks and leverage opportunities. The structure comprises functional streams to ensure that decarbonisation activities are identified and implemented in areas where the work is undertaken,” Ratsheko states. The stream leads have developed activity charters that outline a process by which decarbonisation opportunities will be identified and integrated into the group-wide decarbonisation plan. Embedded within this project delivery structure is ensuring employee participation in the development of the decarbonisation plan. No doubt employee buy-in is key to ensuring that Exxaro meets its environmental management and decarbonisation objectives. The company has established a sustainability advisory committee. “This committee organises a quarterly meeting that all mine managers attend. It is here that we discuss best practices in sustainability and then introduce them across the company,” Ratsheko explains. Leaving a lasting legacy In addition to its own operations, Exxaro is also contributing to environmental sustainability in the communities in which it operates. “Our view is that, if our host communities are struggling, so will business. Our approach is to achieve value beyond compliance demanded by regulators. Our stakeholder mapping and engagement procedures during Environmental Impact Studies are geared to ensure that the process goes beyond compliance or tick box exercises,” explains Ratsheko. For example, mining activities such as drilling, blasting, crushing, transportation and materials handling generate dust. As such, Exxaro regularly seeks to improve its mitigation measures to reduce the impact of these on the surrounding atmosphere and the communities around the mine: such as avoiding blasts during high wind conditions, applying chemical dust suppressants, or using vegetation on topsoil stockpiles. Exxaro also works with local municipalities on water security and waste management projects. For example, the company has donated land to the municipality in Lephalale to start a landfill site – which is targeted to be an energy generating facility soon. “Also, our involvement in the Mokolo Crocodile River Water Augmentation Scheme ensures water security in the entire Lephalale region,” adds Ratsheko. Ratsheko explains that biodiversity loss has been identified as being a significant risk in the context of climate change. “Considering this, we have been implementing several projects to ensure that our mines coexist in harmony with the environment and the communities. These projects, which are done in collaboration with the community cooperatives, include alien invader eradication projects, wetland rehabilitation projects and biodiversity relocation programmes.” An example of such a project is the rehabilitation of a wetland at its Belfast mine in Mpumalanga. “During our Environmental Impact Assessment, we discovered a very old wetland that had deteriorated, probably due to overgrazing and cultivation. Even though the degradation was not caused by our operations, we decided to rehabilitate the wetland. Already, the first phase of the rehabilitation process has resulted in a steady water flow to downstream farmers in the area,” Ratsheko states. Exxaro has been recognised for the stirling work that it is doing. Recently, the company was named winner of the Best Sustainable Mining Leadership Award South Africa 2021 at the Capital Finance International (CFI.co) awards programmes. CFI.co annually identifies organisations that contribute significantly to the convergence of economies; and that truly add value to their stakeholders. For the foreseeable future, coal will remain the lifeblood of Exxaro’s operations. However, it has clear objectives and plans in place and has set the marker for other mining companies to commit to a just transition to a clean energy future.