The Khanye Colliery has met its production and processing targets and surpassed them in some months. Located outside the town of Bronkhorstspruit, the mine has reached a steady-state of production in line with customer specifications. Khanye Colliery’s management team is determined to keep improving on the high standards set and even surpass those high standards to reach new heights in 2022. One person who has played an important part in Khanye Colliery’s smooth running is its Mine Manager Jaco Schroeder. He started as a Pit Superintendent before being appointed Mine Manager in April 2021. Jaco has been in the mining industry for 13 years. With his never-say-die attitude and vast knowledge, he is a man that strives for success. He attributes the success achieved at the plant to a mixture of the experience of the mining and plant teams, adhering to mine procedures and making sure safety regulations are always adhered to. Producing come rain or shine Opencast mines can lose a significant amount of time that is intended to be used to run the mining value chain by trying to deal with the effects of heavy rainfalls. Some sections of the mine can be negatively impacted, reducing productivity owing to a decrease in loading and hauling activities from the pit to the stockpiles. “Currently, there is a lot of rain about which can impact on mine production.  However, in preparation for this we cleaned out our culverts and V-shaped drains which are important to improving the haul road condition during the rainy season,” Jaco explains. Having very wet haul roads also affects the percentages of vehicle and equipment breakdowns, which can be two to three times higher than in dry seasons. This results in a decline in the utilization of equipment and therefore a major reduction in productivity. Moreover, the pumping of water out of the pits aids opencast operations and it is important that these pumps are all in working order during the rainy season, because if the pumping process is not efficient, this can negatively affect the mining and hauling process. Jaco notes: “The rate of pumping has a direct relationship with productivity.  An effective pumping system is one that has due compliance with the relevant regulations and therefore reduces environmental impacts.” Sticking with Safety During the festive season and beginning of the new year Canyon Coal ran a Critical Season Health and Safety Campaign which focused on managing fatigue, avoiding alcohol and substance abuse, safe travel and health and making healthy lifestyle choices. “We placed banners and posters at the main gate and by the offices to raise awareness about the key safety points of the campaign,” explains Jaco. This included reminders regarding COVID-19 safety precaution measures such as regular washing of hands, avoiding crowded areas, wearing of face masks, among the many other measures. “The health and safety of our employees and contractors are fundamental to our operation. We are dedicated to achieving the goal of Zero Harm to ensure that workers return home, healthy and safe to their loved ones every day,” Jaco states.