Ionic Rare Earths has successfully completed due diligence on the acquisition of 100% of Seren Technologies. As announced on 8 December 2021, IonicRE entered a binding term sheet for the acquisition of SerenTech, a UK private company with unique and leading-edge rare earth separation and refining technology. Following the comprehensive due diligence, a Share Purchase agreement (SPA) has been executed with completion pending regulatory approval from the UK Investment Security Unit (ISU). RELATED:Ionic Rare Earths and Seren Technologies forge ahead SerenTech is commercialising technology using ionic liquids for separation and refining of rare earth elements (REE), which includes the full cohort of the proposed basket from Makuutu, consisting of the lanthanides series, Lanthanum (La), to Lutetium (Lu), plus Scandium (Sc) and Yttrium (Y). The acquisition of SerenTech, which will be based in Belfast, UK, greatly complements IonicRE’s strategy of becoming a vertically integrated participant in the formation of new magnet and heavy rare earth supply chains emerging across Europe and North America. IonicRE Managing Director Tim Harrison commented: “The due diligence process has confirmed the potential for the technology to be very value accretive for IonicRE in its ability to help unlock the downstream value of the Makuutu basket plus also move swiftly on magnet recycling potential across Europe, the UK and the US.” “Preliminary test work has confirmed high separation factors at more moderate pH conditions compared to alternative options for REE separation, along with recent enhancements in the magnet recycling flowsheet which will potentially further improve the commercial attractiveness of the technology. A new pilot plant program is planned to commence in Q2 2022 which will feed into the next phase of validation prior to a potential demonstration plant later in 2022.” “Additionally, the Company plans to initiate a new engineering study on the magnet recycling project to revise the prior 2018 study up to 2022 basis to confirm expected operational and capital cost estimates to feed into commercialisation plans.” “The team at SerenTech has identified several potential opportunities to move rapidly in the scale up from demonstration to commercial development of the technology for magnet recycling, which will now be explored with key supply chain stakeholders. Initial discussions with potential industry participants have identified significant interest to take advantage of SerenTech’s hydrometallurgical magnet recycling technology for the extraction and refining of magnet rare earths for use in new high specification magnets”. “Finally, the acquisition of SerenTech provides IonicRE with an inhouse test work capability to execute new test work programs which is expected to complement the development of IonicRE’s refinery flowsheet. The IonicRE team has been engaging with the SerenTech team to map out next steps to help validation of key process chemistry and design criteria inputs for the Refinery Scoping Study.”