For Noxolo Mhaleni, a 26-year-old Pump Attendant at the Khanye Colliery life is constantly about pushing new boundaries and learning more about the world. Noxolo assists with open-pit dewatering of the operation and providing pumping operational support around the mine. Noxolo is from the Bronkhorstspruit and has been working at Khanye Colliery since 2019.  “I always need to check and ensure that the critical spares are readily available on the floor, tools are in an acceptable working condition, materials and resources, that the installations of pumps, pipes and fittings are correctly secured and ensure that drains, sumps, pipe crossings, water trenches are all well maintained in good condition,” Noxolo explains. She adds that ensuring all sumps and pumping areas are well demarcated accordingly is also an important part of her job from a safety perspective. Noxolo, who works full time at the mine, is also a newly qualified teacher having passed, cum laude a Bachelor of Education and attaining 13 distinctions. She completed her 4-year course studies through the University of South Africa (UNISA) and can now teach Natural Science and Maths to intermediate and senior phase classes. She also holds a certificate in Adult Education (AET) and is therefore licensed to facilitate AET courses. “It has been very challenging achieving this because I sometimes finish as late as 6 pm and then I had to study and do my assignments and often had to go sleep at midnight or later. I wake up at 4 am so I can be at work by 6 am. Sometimes when I have a big test to study for an assignment, I only sleep two hours to four hours,” she says. However, Noxolo is not done with studying as working at Canyon Coal has inspired her to become an Environmental Officer. In June 2022, she plans to register to study for an Advanced Diploma in Environmental Management. “I already have completed a module of environmental studies which I did when I completed my Road Construction Certificate (NQF Level 3),” Noxolo notes. Noxolo says she has decided to pursue a career in environmental management because of her love for nature and protecting it as much as possible when carrying out mining activities. “Being a guardian of sustainable practices is important for mines. Ensuring mines operate in the most environmentally cognizant way to minimise their impact on the environment should be a top priority for mines,” she highlights. “As a mother to a young child, my advice to young people is that they must know that education is very important, as it opens doors of prosperity. Learning doesn’t have an ending; you must study hard and study wise. We are living in a world that is constantly improving and one way to keep up is through adapting to relevant studies. Always be consistent, be committed and be diligent in your assignments, make sure that you make time to further your education,” Noxolo emphasises.