ESG compliance can no longer be just lip service. In fact, NIVAASH SINGH, co-head: mining and resources at Nedbank CIB, points out that it is the most important factor that commercial banks take into account when considering funding a mining company. GERARD PETER reports. Singh starts by saying that right now, ESG is probably the biggest topic in the mining industry, followed closely by energy security. As such, it forms the bedrock of all financings that Nedbank is currently evaluating and implementing. Nedbank was the first African bank to become a signatory to the Equator Principles in 2005. The Equator Principles (EPs) is a risk management framework adopted by financial institutions for determining, assessing and managing environmental and social risk in projects. “We have been applying ESG principles to our financings since we adopted the Equator Principles 16 years ago. Typically, we require all mining clients to be compliant with the World Bank Guidelines on EPs. This allows us to deploy capital in a way that allows us to comply with EPs,” Singh explains. Furthermore, Nedbank recently created a Sustainable Finance Business Unit with a clear mandate to identify and promote funding that drives ESG across its client portfolio in mining, energy, infrastructure, and telecommunications. “High carbon emitting clients must subscribe to firm ESG principles and adopt a decarbonisation strategy that is aligned to our own target to be carbon neutral by 2050,” Singh adds. In addition, with the demand for clean energy on the increase, Nedbank has taken the decision not to fund new coal projects started for the purposes of electricity generation. “We will continue to support our existing clients in the coal space but won’t fund any new coal projects going forward,” Singh states. In keeping with ESG principles, other commodities that the bank won’t finance include alluvial diamonds, alluvial gold and any commodity that has a high risk of being a conflict mineral. Green energy projects get the nod On a positive note, Singh notes there are plenty of opportunities to mine those metalsand minerals that are required to drive the green economy. One such commodity in high demand is copper which fetched a spot price of US$10 000/t earlier this year. “Copper is a key metal in the renewable energy space. Four times the amount of copper goes into an electric vehicle (EV) compared with an internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicle. With the demand for EVs increasing, the demand for copper has gone through the roof. Also, there have been supply shortages from copper mines in South America and this has opened up an opportunity for African miners to meet that demand.” Another aspect that bodes well for African copper miners is the grade of the metal found on the continent. In South America 0.7% is considered a high grade for that region but in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), Zambia and Botswana, copper grades are close to 2%. Singh adds that they are actively watching copper projects in the Kalahari Copperbelt in Botswana such as Sandfire Resources’ Motheo Project. “Such projects are attractive to us because of good quality orebodies and low levels of political risk in that country.” Other battery metals projects that Nedbank is keeping a keen eye on include graphite, nickel, lithium and cobalt, all key ingredients required for the manufacture of lithium-ion batteries. “However, I must caution that cobalt is considered a conflict mineral and as a result, its source becomes critically important when we are deciding on funding such an operation,” Singh adds. Another important battery metal that has Nedbank’s attention is zinc, particularly in South Africa. To that end, Singh believes that there is sufficient appetite to fund key zinc operators in the Northern Cape region when they undertake expansion projects. There is further scope to fund PGM projects which are vital for developing hydrogen fuel cells for that can power mine dump vehicles, thereby reducing carbon emissions on mine sites. Leading from the front While there is a strong emphasis on environmental and social aspects of ESG compliance, of equal importance is governance. “This includes how a company secures its mining licence – was it done in a fair and transparent manner and what impact will it have on communities and the environment? This was never a material consideration for us long ago but now, if there is an inkling of doubt, we will decline a project,” Singh states. He adds that the bank tracks ESG compliance throughout a life of mine from pre development phase through to the operational phase. Independent technical engineers are employed to monitor, measure and report on ESG practices. It is one thing to have an ESG policy in place but the key driver to implement this policy is a company’s management team. “Experience, expertise and track record are the three things we look at before we even consider the merits of a feasibility study. This is by far the most important factor when it comes to determining whether ESG compliance is effectively carried out,” Singh concludes.