The Company announced on 11 April 2022 that Nhlanhla Nene and Godfrey Gomwe had been elected as directors of the Company, with their appointments being subject to completion of the due diligence required by the AIM Rules for Companies, AIM Rules for Nominated Advisers and approval by Strand Hanson, the Company’s Nominated Adviser. The Company is pleased to confirm that the afore-mentioned processes for both Nene and Gomwe have now been completed. Appointment of chairman and CEO MC Mining’s Board has appointed Nene as Chairman and Gomwe as CEO. Nene replaces Khomotso Mosehla, who served as the interim Chairman following Bernard Pryor’s resignation, as announced by the Company on 11 March 2022. Gomwe has beenappointed as MC Mining’s Managing Director and CEO following the resignation of Executive Director and interim CEO, Sam Randazzo. The material terms agreed with regards to Randazzo’s resignation, as well as Gomwe’s employment agreement are noted in Annexure A. Appointment of Non-Executive Director The Company has also appointed Mathews Senosi as a Non-Executive Director with immediate effect. This appointment follows the Company’s issue of 38,363,909 ordinary shares to Senosi Group Investment Holdings, as announced on 6 April 2022. Senosi is a qualified mining engineer (University of the Witwatersrand) with over 25 years’ experience in mining and project execution. Mathews gained experience at Anglo Coal before successfully pursuing personal business interests in mining, engineering and consulting as well as civil and construction projects, and was a key contributor in the successful execution of numerous coal mining projects. Senosi has extensive experience in opencast and underground coal mining and is the CEO of the Overlooked Mining Group which produces over 7.5 Mtpa of thermal coal for the export and domestic markets. Commenting today, MC Mining’s Chairman, Nhlanhla Nene, said: “I congratulate Gomwe on his appointment as MD and CEO. Godfrey brings a wealth of mining, commercial, financial and leadership expertise, and his extensive skills will be invaluable to MC Mining as we complete the Makhado funding package with a view to commencing construction later in CY2022. “The Board also welcomes Senosi’s appointment and looks forward to his contribution in taking MC Mining forward to achieve its objectives and vision.”