Winning the Investment Battlefield at Mining Indaba in 2020 certainly put ASX-listed Tietto Minerals and its Abujar gold project in Côte d’Ivoire on the African mining radar. Fast forward two years and Abujar is firmly on track to start production in Q4, 2022. GERARD PETER caught up with executive director MARK STRIZEK to find out about recent developments. Abujar is in western Côte d’Ivoire and comprises three contiguous exploration tenements: Middle, South, and North tenement, with a total land area of 1 114 km2 of which less than 10% has been explored. In December 2020, Tietto was granted a gold mining licence within the Middle tenement which covers an area of 120 km2. Tietto has an 88% interest in Abujar with its local partners having a 2% interest. The government of Côte d’Ivoire is entitled to a free carried 10% interest in the project on commencement of mining. In October 2021, Tietto completed a Definitive Feasibility Study (DFS) for an open pit 4 Mtpa operation. The DFS metrics were compelling and confirmed Abujar’s potential to be one of the largest gold producing mines in Côte d’Ivoire. The DFS shows that Abujar has a mineral resource estimate of 87.5 Mt at 1.2 g/t gold for 3.35 Moz. Open pit probable ore reserves stand at 34.4 Mt at 1.3 g/t gold for 1.45 Moz. “We are looking to produce 260 000 oz in the first year of production at an All In Sustaining Cost (AISC) of US$651/oz. Thereafter, we are looking to produce 200 000 ozpa for the next six years at an AISC of $804/oz. This makes the project very attractive, and we expect it to provide a good payback,” Strizek explains. Tietto has secured all mining and environmental approvals for the project and is currently negotiating the conclusion of the Abujar mining convention with the government. In January this year, the company announced that it had started construction of the mine. To get construction underway, Tietto purchased 14 dump trucks and two Hitachi excavators for the bulk earthworks at Abujar. “We have poured blinding concrete for the CIL tanks and bulk earthworks have been completed for the process plant and camp area. Construction of the administration office, cafeteria and the first 120 camp rooms is also underway following completion of the concrete foundations,” Strizek adds. Simple yet effective While many companies are looking to implement the latest technology into their mining operations, Strizek says that mining at Abujar will be done using a tried and tested method. This involves the development of a truck-and-shovel, open pit mine using conventional mining techniques commonplace in West Africa. The plant will consist of a conventional SAG milling circuit, gravity, and carbon in-leach processing with a throughput capacity of 4 Mtpa of fresh ore. The SAG mill remains on track for delivery to the mine site in Q2, 2022. RELATED:Tietto Minerals’ MD invests in future of the company Strizek explains that this type of mining operation makes sense in a region where wages are not as high as other parts of the world such as Australia. “We are happy to put people into trucks and diggers and provide employment opportunities for them,” he states. “Mining operations will be carried out by contractor miners while Tietto will have an owner’s team on the ground that will supervise some of the operations such as earthmoving, drilling and blasting as well as managing operations in the mill. Strizek is impressed by the quality of contract miners that come from the West African region. “We put the work out to tender and are now working with a few preferred contractors and thus far we have been very impressed by their standards and what they have to offer.” When it comes to powering the mine, Abujar is conveniently located close to a national grid that is powered by hydropower. There will also be diesel generators installed as back-up. Strizek explains that the company is going to install a 34 km2 long 90 kV power line to the mine. “This will be gifted to the government and will become a state asset. As a result, it will also provide power to surrounding communities situated on the north-eastern flank of the mine,” he states. Financially, Tietto is in a strong position to fund Abujar all the way to production start-up. “We have engaged with Taurus Fund Management to provide us with a US$130 to $140 million debt facility over a five-year period. This is the same company that provided a debt facility for West African Resources’ Sanbrado mine in Burkina Faso. Also, in January, we were able to conclude A$85 million capital raise and this puts us in a very strong position financially,” Strizek adds. While Abujar will initially be an open pit operation, Strizek says that there is potential to go underground. There is further potential to increase the life of mine with further exploration efforts. In fact, Tietto has established its own drilling company that allows it to drill further and at a low cost. And while the impetus is currently on getting Abujar to start producing by the end of this year, Strizek says that the company does have ambitions to expand in the region. “We have two other projects in Côte d’Ivoire, and we are waiting for their applications to be approved. We also have some legacy assets in Liberia. “Hopefully in a few years, we will have a few mines in the region that will collectively produce around 500 000 ozpa. The target of our board is to grow the company quickly and provide the benefits for our shareholders and all the stakeholders in the countries we operate in,” he concludes.