In recent years, the world has witnessed a rapid increase in the consumption of commodities. This is due to the rising trends in urbanisation and industrialisation. The mining, minerals, and metals (MMM) industry plays a critical role in this growth. In fact, according to a US Geological Survey, it is estimated that each person uses more than 11 000 kg a year of new non-fuel minerals found in everyday products such as medicine, buildings, vehicles, homes, electronic gadgets, etc. Commodity consumption therefore continues to be a significant driver for the MMM industry. According to Vernon Moodley, industry manager: mining, minerals & metals at Endress+Hauser, the constant change in technology has disrupted industries and businesses around the world. “They are now being forced to accept this new reality rather quickly. However, the advantages of adopting new technologies are immeasurable and have tremendous potential to deliver exceptional value for those willing to adopt.” Optimising mining processes in a Heartbeat The mining industry has experienced many challenges over the past few decades about productivity. According to research by McKinsey, mining operations are as much as 28% less productive today than a decade ago. McKinsey also states that the profitability of mining over the past three years has decreased. However, the adoption of new technologies and the implementation of digitalisation can help mines to reduce complexities, improve overall productivity and optimise operational performance. Endress+Hauser offers a broad range of devices with Heartbeat Technology to help optimise mining processes. Heartbeat technology breathes life into the customer’s devices. The following benefits can be derived: Real-time data for smooth mining operations What does this mean for the engineer on site? “The engineer will now be able to commission, run diagnostics or perform verification tests without physically touching the device. This leads to flexibility in mining operations, increased productivity, greater safety, and lowering costs,” explains Moodley. While productivity globally has been on the decline, the harnessing of data and the utilisation of automated systems offers the potential to enhance the productivity, efficiency, and safety of mining operations into the future. Therefore, the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) is transforming industries across the world. “The mining industry is in a prime position to benefit from the adoption of digital technology across its operations. There is no longer any need to wait, because the technology has now matured and is ready to be implemented,” adds Moodley. Integrated IIoT into a plant Netilion is a cloud service offered by Endress+Hauser that demonstrates the intelligent utilisation of data and information from field instrumentation. While the data already exists, the Netilion applications allow users to take advantage of it, with the Netilion cloud-based ecosystem that enables intelligent and connected applications for the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT). When combined with Heartbeat technology and Netilion applications, this data enables predictive maintenance. The information also provides an indication of operational reliability and process safety. Since the instruments automatically monitor their own condition, manual inspection cycles can be reduced. The Endress+Hauser Predictive Analytics app helps calculate the optimum date for maintenance, and the customer is notified by a message on their smartphone when maintenance is due. This application offers many more features including connecting the data with other business processes via cloud to automatically place a purchase order via e-procurement; automatic delivery to the operation site with an ideal date for exchange; and integrating data from all devices with different fields of applications. “Within the MMM industry, digitalisation transforms key aspects at every step of the value chain. Digital transformation in mining connects people, technology and processes to achieve strategic transformation, and also places organisations ahead of competition,” concludes Moodley.