Another low profile unit now joins the Toro™ family from Sandvik, Toro™ LH208L loader. The loader is tailor-made to operate efficiently in conditions where working height is extremely limited, with an equipment height of just 1.6 meters but high payload capacity of 7.7 tonnes. The main market for Toro™. Designed for low profile applications Toro™ LH208L loader is a strong and reliable workhorse for low profile hard rock mining, specifically designed for the toughest of conditions. With its robust reinforced structure, compact size, high payload capacity and components that are designed to perform in the mine environment, the loader is tailored to meet productivity targets in applications where working height is extremely limited. Toro™ LH208L loader frames are reinforced to resist ground and roof impacts, with the welded steel box structures used in the frame and boom providing strong resistance to shock loads. Operator safety Toro™ LH208L loader is fitted with a ROPS and FOPS certified canopy, protecting the operator in the event of roll-over or falling objects. The canopy door includes a door lock and latch mechanism, with an interlock switch which automatically applies the brakes and inactivates boom, bucket and steering when the door is opened. Adjustable high-power LED lights as standard configuration enable better operator visibility, further enhanced by a standard monitoring camera system which includes front and rear cameras. To improve overall safety underground, a Proximity Detection System (PDS) interface option is also available. Improved productivity with digital options Toro™ LH208L loader offers options specifically designed to improve productivity, such as Sandvik integrated weighing system IWS and traction control, both of which are already available for a number of other Sandvik loaders. The integrated weighing system measures the payload when lifting the boom, as well as the number of buckets filled during a shift, and records the results to My Sandvik Digital Services Knowledge Box™. Payload monitoring assists in maximizing productivity by optimizing loads, reducing overloading and helping to identify training needs. The traction control system reduces wheel slippage when penetrating to the muck pile and filling the bucket, extending tire lifetime and decreasing rubber waste. Proven engine technology The loader is equipped with a robust Deutz 140 kW Stage II engine, with catalytic purifier and muffler. The optionally available diesel particulate filter (DPF) is made of sintered metal and is field serviceable,  cleaned using a high-pressure washer or steam cleaner. Using sintered metal as the DPF material also results in a long service interval. To reduce emissions and fossil fuel consumption, the engine can also use paraffinic fuel, thereby meeting BS EN 15940 requirements.