In a recent article penned by a Mining Review Africa guest contributor, Selina Zhuwarara, she reiterated the fact that the artisanal mining sector has become one of the most dangerous vocations owing to poor health, safety, and environmental practices. “As a result, many men, women, and children continue to lose their lives, become disabled, maimed or chronically ill whilst trying to earn a living from artisanal and small-scale mining. Safety, health, and environmental issues resulting from illegal mining are the hardest to prevent or resolve because the mining activities occur clandestinely,” she explains. RELATED:How can safety in the artisanal sector be promoted? While some African countries have legalised artisanal mining many others have not, which has contributed to the difficulty of having a solid grasp over this issue. She continues: “The improvement of safety, health and environmental progress in the artisanal sector is a direct product of adequate government regulation and effective enforcement of rules and guidelines for the sector. “Unfortunately, the artisanal sector remains a poorly regulated component of the mining industry despite its potential to be a viable and stable economic activity for a large demographic of Africa’s populace.” In one of our analysis articles authored by Jaqui Pinto and Nomsa Mbere, from Webber Wentzel they breakdown the Artisanal and Small-Scale Mining Policy 2022 which was published by the Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy, Gwede Mantashe, in March. RELATED:New ASM and community resettlement: progress, but grey areas remain “Both policy documents illustrate the desired integration of ESG standards in the mining sector. The regulator is attempting to provide mining companies, junior miners, and other smaller entrants into the mining sector with guidelines and tools on ASM and resettlement of mine communities to assist them to fulfil their ESG obligations,” they explain. Current mining laws in South Africa do not regulate ASM as a discrete form of mining.  Instead, a mining permit which is less onerous than a mining right can be obtained, but ASM miners still struggle to meet its requirements.