Early adopters in the mining sector are inviting and evaluating new blasting technologies at their operations to gain a competitive advantage, while traditional followers are taking a more cautious approach. Either way, the industry continues to see exciting advances that are taking mines firmly into the Fourth Industrial Revolution. According to D. Scott Scovira, global manager: blasting science at BME, the early adopters are often driven by corporate initiatives and keen for business-wide implementation. “Mining companies on this path may select and dedicate one or two mine sites – or even just sections of their mines – to evaluate the latest drilling and blasting innovations and technologies,” states Scovira. He notes that mines that are perceived to be slow in the uptake of new technologies simply tend to be prudent investors. “They want a finished product that works 100% out of the box and pays dividends without having to risk undertaking continuous development, imperfections, or bug fixes with the provider,” he states. “They tend to wait to see what benefits can be realised from the spend, time and energy before investing in new technologies.” Uptake Whichever the preferred approach, he emphasises that there is certainly plenty of uptake in digital and automation technologies – as mines work to enhance blasting safety, productivity, and efficiency at various levels across the technology cycle. South Africa-based BME, part of the JSE-listed Omnia Group, has been supporting mining companies with its blasting innovations for decades, with its expertise, services and products applied around the globe. “Explosive products and services providers rely on new innovations to remain relevant in a very competitive industry,” notes Scovira. “As a sector, we continue to see new advances in blast design and assessment, initiation system technology, explosives formulations and delivery systems.” Considering the efficiency and productivity priorities for mines, Scovira highlighted seamless execution between mine engineering and operations as a key focus of technological innovation. Execution “Mines need first and foremost to have the capability to prepare drill and blast designs that can effectively be transferred and executed on the working bench,” Scovira adds. “This is because engineering plans invariably need to be adjusted on the bench due to the dynamic nature of geology and other factors.” A second vital area in which mines can gain value from current and evolving technologies is in terms of systems with the flexibility to capture, assess and manage the variations in each blast. This is integral to the continuous improvement process. “Blasting product offerings around blast design, blast execution and blast assessment are continuing to advance,” he says. “For instance, the use of drone-based blast design, high speed image capture, and post-blast fragmentation evaluation are already here, and capabilities in this area continue to improve every day.” Environmental footprint Practices and technologies in the blasting space also make a valuable contribution to mining’s growing efforts to reduce their carbon footprint and improve environmental sustainability. Most mining houses are currently focused on the energy and fuel intensity of their operating equipment fleets, notes Scovira. “Front-of-mind for mines is the conversion to electric and other alternative clean fuel technologies.” Quality blasting supports the drive toward lower carbon emissions by raising the efficiency of loading, hauling, crushing, and milling – which are energy-intensive processes. Digital systems are enhancing the levels of accuracy and reliability in each blast. The power of modern blast design software – such as BME’s BLASTMAP – leverages the precision and flexibility of BME’s electronic detonators to optimise fragmentation distribution. In particular, optimal fragmentation improves not only loading and hauling efficiency, but also the throughput and recoveries achieved in the crushing and milling circuits. Used oil disposal There are other ways that BME’s innovation helps customers to improve their environmental performance, he says, including the responsible utilisation and disposal of used oil as a fuel agent. “BME is a recognised global leader in the incorporation of used oil in our INNOVEX line of bulk emulsion formulations,” Scovira states. “Used oil in bulk emulsion formulations is not a novelty for BME; it has been our way of executing a sustainability-focused business for over 20 years.” He adds that more attention is likely to be paid to how blasting can contribute to reducing climate change impacts, as mines give more priority to reducing their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Ammonium nitrate (AN) produced by clean hydrogen is an initiative being undertaken by several major AN manufacturers. “For the near future, AN will remain the primary material to break rock,” Scovira adds. “However, several emergent bulk explosive technologies are being explored to break away from the AN nitrogen-based molecule and its pre-blast and post-blast generation of GHGs.” Automation In recent years, blasting technologies have supported mines’ efforts to automate operations, with significant impact. Having invested extensively over many years in electronic and digital aspects of its blasting offerings, BME today has a suite of resources that customers can leverage in their technological journey. “To highlight the integrated role that our products can play in taking mining forward, we have encapsulated these in our Blast Alliance brand,” says Scovira. “It starts with our BLASTMAP software, which streamlines the design process for each blast.” With versions relevant to both surface and underground operations, the versatility and reliability of BLASTMAP is enhanced with the use of BME’s electronic detonators and world-renowned AXXIS digital initiation system. The software also allows for blast patterns to be simulated and evaluated before actual detonation, ensuring trouble-free blasts that deliver optimal results. “This sets the scene for us to generate, upload, store and analyse large volumes of data related to each blast,” Scovira explains. “Mines of the future not only use technology to monitor and control existing processes: they must use that data productively to continuously improve performance on various fronts.” Continuous improvement Future-oriented mines will invariably seek continuous improvement in blasting practice, which depends on detailed assessments of each blast. Where blasts are conducted every day – or even a few times a week – the data from each blast must be quickly generated and available. This is where platforms like BME’s XPLOLOG are crucial, as they can provide data that compares key elements of the planned blast with those of the actual blast. “This empowers management to find inventive ways to avoid any challenges encountered,” Scovira states. “In the absence of the right data, all the proposed solutions can only be based on guesswork.” BME prioritises the importance of integrating its solutions effectively with the mine’s own systems. Scovira notes that this is only part of the process. There is also extensive collaboration with other partners in the value chain, especially those whose technologies BME leverages in its own solutions. This is key to optimising the end-value and charting sustainable paths to success. Skills In common with other technological developments in mining, advances in blasting must be accompanied by ongoing skills development. New blasting technologies – especially in relation to electronic initiation systems – do demand a higher level of competency by the blast designer and the in-pit end-user to achieve optimal blast outcomes. “Non-electric initiation technology has reduced the level of end user application knowledge and experience up to the point that anyone could be asked to help tie-in a blast,” Scovira explains. “The consequence is that if a non-electric blast is hooked up incorrectly and there is an out-of-sequence firing, subsequent impacts to the blast result could include sub[1]optimal fragmentation, muck pile displacement, and greater risk of fly rock.” He adds, though, that in emerging countries – where much of the world’s mining is conducted – education is recognised as key to the future. In these societies, technological expertise is gladly shared among peers, and the skills level of miners is keeping pace. Future Looking ahead into the next decade, Scovira expects that mining and blasting will certainly look very different. Initiation systems and bulk explosive products, as well as blast recording and assessment intelligence, will continue to advance. “While it is difficult to predict many of these trends, the future of blasting promises the potential for new green explosives formulation breakthroughs. In a similar way that nitroglycerin dynamite replaced black powder, and ammonium nitrate-based ANFO replaced dynamite, the next generation of chemistry-based rock breaking technology lies ahead of us.”