With an increasing adoption of green energy, South Africa will have to gear up for being a player in the green energy economy. The minister of the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy Gwede Mantashe, has urged PGM suppliers to further develop its role in the global battery storage space. Hlengiwe Motaung reports. Speaking at the 5th Annual Platinum Group Metals Industry Day, the outgoing chairman of the SFA Oxford (a consulting and research group on PGM’s) Stephen A. Forrest, shared the company’s 20 years of in-depth experience in research. “The hydrogen economy is a potential game-changer for platinum demand in the very long term, with most of this demand predicted to come from fuel cell electric vehicles. Platinum, ruthenium, and iridium are the mission-critical metals for hydrogen production and fuel cell deployment, but ruthenium and iridium are not at the forefront of mine planning, which raises the question of whether there’ll be a sufficient supply of these metals in the future” the report read. Sandy McGregor, senior portfolio manager at Allan Gray, highlighted investor appetite in PGM’s. “The investment community sees great opportunities in the platinum group sector. The companies are in many ways very cheap, and they are companies which a lot of people have great expectations on”. However, McGregor pointed out one of the dangers of an expected windfall, with investors concerned about whether returns will flow back to them. Anglo American Platinum was applauded for its success in an experiment that fueled a truck with green hydrogen, at its Mogalakwena PGMs mine. “This is progress, and we are trailblazing in this method. We need to maintain this so that South Africa can dictate the terms of its development” said Mantashe. New horizons for Impala Platinum A full takeover of South Africa’s Royal Bafokeng Platinum (RBPlat) by larger miner Impala Platinum is on the cards. “The independent board has decided to recommend the offer from Impala Platinum,” said RBPlat CEO Steve Phiri. Impala Platinum CEO Nico Muller told delegates that the end goal for Impala was full control of RBPlat. “It is a very important transaction for us, which is why we will pursue it very aggressively,” Muller told the conference.