On 23 November 2021, ZAC hosted its annual golf day at the Richards Bay Country Club, in KwaZulu Natal. Now in its fourth year, the golf day was initiated to raise funds for various charities. The annual event was once more a resounding success, raising over R250 000 for charity. The title sponsors of the event were pump company, The PumpSmith, South African manufacturer of specialised mining equipment, Rham Equipment and conveyor belts solutions provider Conveyor and Plant Services. The Golf Day’s format was a 4-person-a-team American Scramble, which is a popular format for charitable events.   A spirit of camaraderie was evident throughout the day with the players competing for bragging rights, awards and the many sponsored prizes on offer. In addition to the top finishers, prizes were awarded for the longest drive, closest to the pin. There were opportunities for competitors to make additional donations and win prizes such as television sets, by taking part in chipping contests and closest to the target competitions. In addition to the funds raised from companies’ sponsorships of holes and the overall event itself, an auction for the ZAC Floating Trophy was held. Menar COO Bradley Hammond facilitated the auction and encouraged companies to embrace ZAC’s mantra of being the ‘Caring Colliery’ by showing their full support for charitable causes and pledging as much as possible. The auction of ZAC Floating Trophy was won by conveyor belt solutions provider, Conveyor and Plant Services, director Dawie Van Nieuwenhuizen, who pledged R115 000. This is the second consecutive time the company has won the trophy. I-ZAC Golf Day ivuselela umoya wokupha I-ZAC Golf Day iqoqa imali eyevile ku-R250 000 ukusiza umphakathi Ngomhlaka 23 ngoLwezi wezi-2021, i-ZAC ibe nomcimbi wosuku lwayo lwegalofu lwaminyaka yonke eRichards Bay Country Club, KwaZulu-Natal. Njengokwejwayelekile lo mcimbi ube ngenkulu impumelelo, waqoqa umnikelo ongaphezu kuka-R250 000. Abaxhasi abakhulu balo mcimbi bekuyinkampani yama-pump, iThe PumpSmith, inkampani yaseNingizumu Afrika eyakha izinsiza-kusebenza zasemayini, iRham Equipment kanye nenkampani ehlinzeka ngama-conveyor belt, iConveyour and Plant Services. Uhlelo olwasetshenziswa ngeGolf Day yilolu olwaziwa nge-American Scramble (yabantu abane iqembu neqembu) okulona oluvame ukusetshenziswa emicimbini yokuqoqa iminikelo. Umoya wobungani nokwethembana wawuvunguza usuku lonke, abadlali bencintisanela igama lokuqholosha, izindodo nemiklomelo. Ngaphezulu kwabadlali abaqede phezulu, bekukhona nomklomelo womuntu oshayele ibanga elide nosondele kakhulu eflekini lomgodi wegalofu. Abancintisanayo baphinde bathola nethuba nokwandisa iminikelo yabo ukuze bawine amaTV, ngokungenela umcintiswano wokuphihliza nowokujikijela.  Ngaphezu kwemali evela ezinkampanini ukuxhasa imigodi yegalofu nomcimbi usuwonkana, kwaba khona nendali yendondo iZAC Floating Trophy. UMnu uBradley Hammond, oyiCOO yeMenar Group, okunguye owayebhidisa le-auction, wanxenxa izinkampani ukuthi zisize ukufeza inqubo-mgomo yeZAC yokuba ‘imayini enakekelayo’ ngokuxhasa inzinhlelo zokunikela ngokufana imali abangakwazi ukuyifaka. Indondo yanqontshwa nguMnu uDawie Van Niewenhuizen, ongumqondisi wenkampani ehlinzeka ama-conveyor belt iConveyor and Plant Services, owanikela ngo-R115 000. Bekungokwesibili imicimbi ilandelana le nkampani inqoba le ndondo.