Malefo Mining Services was on a steady growth trajectory before the onset of the COVID-19 pandemic and ensuing national lockdown, which hit businesses hard. The Delmas-based supplier of mining equipment and services had to make difficult decisions to ensure the survival of the business, including making redundancies and postponing several new ventures. Most of the Malefo team has been with the company from the beginning. Initially, the company started with about 10 employees, excluding management, and grew as it started getting opportunities at different mining sites. Before COVID-19, the company had 35 employees, however, it had to retrench some of these staff members, but is aiming to rebuild and grow as the economy recovers.   The company is run by young, ambitious Delmas residents Tshepo Malefo (Business Development Manager), Kgotso Malefo (Operations Manager), Thulani Motshwene (Projects and Site Manager) and Marcus Tubatse (Technical Director). The company has a wealth of combined knowledge and experience: Marcus is a metallurgist, Tshepo recently completed a three-year entrepreneurship development programme (EDP) through Raizcorp Academy, Thulani is studying project management and Kgotso has a media degree. Registered in 2013, Malefo got its start by cleaning the spillages at a coal mine, in Delmas. “From there, we saw an opportunity to service the mines with belts, offer belt splicing, pulley lagging on-site and supplying of conveyor belts and scrapers as there weren’t local companies providing this service,” notes Tshepo. Growing with Canyon Coal Malefo started working with Canyon Coal in 2018. “They gave us a chance at their Phalanndwa Colliery when splicing and installing their belts. And they have continuously said that we have provided them with good service. They have given us an opportunity and said that we have done really good work. They have never had any comebacks and with us, our splices last longer than anyone in the market. It was for this reason that they also called us at Khanye Colliery, in Bronkhorstspruit in November 2020 to do the mines belt splicing,” Tshepo states. He says that many companies are using the old method of splicing but Malefo uses the latest splicing techniques, which sets them apart from their competitors. Thulani adds that another thing that sets them apart from other service providers is that: “We don’t have complacency. We are consistently doing research and training, as we always want to attain the highest standards.” The company supplies belts and scrapers with the support of partners, such as Martin Engineering, which has played a central role in supporting the company’s growth journey over the years. Malefo also supplies belt idlers and is looking into manufacturing belt idlers itself. Tshepo explains that Malefo doesn’t have many fixed contracts and therefore the company largely works on an ad hoc basis, “so when there’s maintenance required or a breakdown then we are called in. This means we always have to give quality service or we won’t be called back.” “We want to build a legacy that we can be proud of, and one where companies will recommend us because of the excellent service they have received. We highly value the relationship we have with Canyon Coal and hope to keep growing it,” Tshepo states.