On the 22nd of February 2022, a deadly explosion was reported in Gbomblora village on an artisanal mining site in Burkina Faso. State media reported that over 60 people perished in the accident. The cause of the accident is suspected of having emanated from chemicals used to treat gold that was stocked at the site. The tragic accident is one of many that has become commonplace in the artisanal mining sector in Africa. The artisanal sector has become one of the most dangerous vocations owing to poor health, safety and environmental practices. As a result, many men, women and children continue to lose their lives, become disabled, maimed or chronically ill whilst trying to earn a living from artisanal and small-scale mining. Safety, health, and environmental (SHE) issues resulting from illegal mining are the hardest to prevent or resolve because the mining activities occur clandestinely. While some African countries have legalised artisanal mining, thereby creating in-roads into managing safety, health and environmental issues in artisanal mining, many others have not, which has contributed to the difficulty of having a solid grasp over this issue. The improvement of safety, health and environmental progress in the artisanal sector is a direct product of adequate government regulation and effective enforcement of rules and guidelines for the sector. Unfortunately, the artisanal sector remains a poorly regulated component of the mining industry despite its potential to be a viable and stable economic activity for a large demographic of Africa’s populace. Many artisanal and small scale mining (ASM) host governments still find it challenging to gain effective control over the sector or garner cooperation from its participants. In some instances, despite reasonable efforts by governments to embrace the sector, its participants find comfort in remaining obscure or illegal. Many reasons drive the sector participants to prefer this route, including lack of awareness, economic or social constraints, criminality or simply refusal to change. However, it is a considered view that this regulatory dissonance is also a symptom of the fact that regulation has not reached an optimal point where a large section of artisanal miners can comfortably submit themselves to regulation. Many reasons perpetuate dissatisfaction with the regulatory framework. Some reasons include the cost of maintaining mining rights, the number of agencies seeking rent from the miners, inability to meet the regulatory requirements, i.e. lack of formal skills training, cumbersome reporting returns etc. Whichever the case, it is crucial to fully identify and explore the regulatory components which dissuade and discourage artisanal miners from utilising the protections of formalisation. As noted above, it is crucial to closely examine all the issues that result in poor yielding to the rules and regulations around SHE issues in the artisanal sector. An exhaustive analysis of these causes is vital in assisting governments and regulators in developing a viable framework of rules for artisanal miners. The pressing task for governments is to establish rules and regulations that can elicit the support of artisanal miners even in the absence of intensive policing. It is crucial to arrive at a scenario where there is a significant degree of self-enforcement within the sector regarding adherence and commitment to SHE guidelines. For such a situation to be attained, two critical elements are necessary; firstly, there is a need for clear and practical mining guidelines for artisanal mining. There is a need for clear protocols that apply to the designation of artisanal mining claims and a clear structure of expectations for artisanal operations, whether panning, excavations, underground mining, processing, handling of toxic substances, or labour protocols etc. Opening up appropriate mining claims for artisanal mining and standardising mining practices or the operational setup of artisanal sites is the first step to encouraging predictability and accountability in the artisanal sector. It is challenging to hold artisanal miners accountable without clear guidelines and a set structure supporting safe and sustainable mining. Regulators should set reasonable expectations of what an artisanal mining site should have and how it should operate. Acquiring the buy-in of artisanal miners to these guidelines necessitates the inclusion of the miners and their value chain partners in developing the protocols. This brings the second element to improving SHE issues: the need for organised collective representation structures with enhanced interaction with policy and lawmakers. The development or promotion of national collective representation structures for artisanal miners may appear premature when governments are struggling with effecting control over the sector. However, promoting and developing organised collective representation structures and increasing the platforms and frequency of interaction between these structures and policy and lawmakers is an avenue to usher in the development of viable regulatory systems. Therefore, it is essential to organise artisanal mining representative structures from the local to the national level. In addition, the national structure should ordinarily have a regular audience with regulators, policymakers, and lawmakers. In as much as oversight is an essential element of regulation, a sector such as artisanal mining needs substantial deference to self-regulation and self-action to achieve satisfactory levels of regulatory compliance. The disaggregated characteristic of artisanal activity makes enforcement difficult as it requires immense resources and staffing. Most ASM host governments are already hard-pressed in this area, even in the best of times. In such a scenario, the sector participants need to resonate with the regulatory conditions so that they take it upon themselves to self-enforce the rules with minimal coercion. Organised collective representation can play a significant role in cultivating a sense of shared purpose between the sector and regulators. Collective representation also opens up opportunities for effective collective bargaining in problematic areas. Collective representation has played a significant role in advancing safety, health, and environmental protocols in the large-scale mining sector. It has provided space for a wide range of mining stakeholders to have a say in shaping the ideal working conditions and facilitating ideal interactions between the industry and its social and environmental interfaces. Giving artisanal representative structures a more substantial role in developing policy and regulation can go a long way in improving compliance in the sector. Transforming the prevailing attitudes towards regulation in the artisanal mining sector is a complex and layered issue. Compliance is not an automatic result of the legalisation of the artisanal sector. Instead, it is a process that requires the regulator to invest time, effort, and resources in cultivating a culture of compliance and addressing the misconceptions of regulation. Over time, the artisanal sector has entrenched its obscurity as its greatest strength, and addressing this mindset requires extensive change management strategies to complement formalisation efforts. Therefore, there is a need to engage the artisanal sector persistently and consistently in order to unravel the aversions toward regulation. There is an urgent need to enhance the efforts to bring the artisanal sector under effective control. Proactive governance coupled with enhanced organised participation can assist governments in improving the SHE issues that currently plague the sector. The greater the sense of shared ownership of the regulatory framework, the less the regulatory dissonance.