The economy, efficiency and productivity offered by Volvo’s extensive range of equipment for mining and quarrying has proved to be a boon to its customers as they negotiate an uncertain business environment which has been hard hit by the COVID-19 pandemic, writes ARTHUR TASSEL. This is the view of Dave Vaughan, MD of Babcock’s Equipment business. “Now, more than ever, users need to get the maximum productivity out of their fleets at the lowest operating cost and this is where Volvo machines can really make a difference,” he says. “They’re renowned globally for their reliability, fuel economy, ease of maintenance, safety and productivity, which is why they’re the first choice for so many customers.” Babcock has been the dealer for Volvo Construction Equipment (Volvo CE) in southern Africa since 2000, performing so successfully since then that some Volvo machines have become market leaders locally. Volvo’s articulated haulers have proved particularly popular, with the A40, which offers a 39 t payload, having achieved almost iconic status. Says Vaughan: “It is easily the biggest seller in its class in the southern African market and is a firm favourite with mining contractors, plant hirers and mine owners.” Expanding on the advantages of the Volvo CE range, he notes that Volvo machines offer industry-beating fuel economy (a claim which can be backed up by many case studies undertaken by Volvo CE and Babcock). He also points out that they are very robustand durable. “One result of this is that used Volvo machines, particularly the articulated haulers, are in huge demand worldwide, serving almost as an international currency.” A further advantage of the Volvo range is the commonality of components, with most models featuring a drive line – the engine, drop box and final drives – that is manufactured by Volvo in-house. The result is that each component is perfectly matched to others in the drive train. High-tech features of the range include CareTrack, Volvo CE’s telematics system that gives owners access to a wide range of machine monitoring information designed to save time and money. “We’re finding that more and more customers are opting to use CareTrack,” Vaughan says. While the A40 is Babcock’s most popular articulated hauler model, the A60H, first introduced to South Africa in 2017, has also carved out significant market share. The world’s biggest true articulated hauler with a capacity of 55 t, the A60H makes it feasible for operators to use versatile articulated machines in applications which were traditionally reserved for ‘rigids’ because of the volumes involved. “The A60H is particularly effective in pits where the gradients are steep and the underfoot conditions are challenging,” Vaughan observes. “Rigid trucks tend to struggle in this type of environment.” There are currently around 120 Volvo A60Hs in the field in southern Africa, with many of them having gone to customers in the Northern Cape, Namibia and Zambia. Vaughan believes the A60H will probably be the upper limit of Volvo CE’s articulated hauler range. “Technically, there’s no reason we couldn’t go bigger but tyre technology would have to catch up for this to be feasible,” he says. The Volvo articulated hauler range is complemented by a range of Volvo rigid mining trucks, which were launched globally in 2018. The models seen as best suited to the demands of the southern African market are the R60D, a 60 t class machine, and the entirely new R100E, a 100 tonner designed for heavy mining applications. “The R100E is aimed at a market which is highly competitive and which is limited in size but I’m happy to report that we have a fleet of six of them working on the Zambian Copperbelt, where they are performing very well,” says Vaughan. “As for the R60D, sales are developing nicely, with eight of them having been sold to two customers in the Mpumalanga coalfields. One of the customers is on record as saying thatnothing comes close to the cost-per-ton yield of the R60D.” In addition to Volvo’s mining trucks, Babcock markets Volvo CE’s crawler excavator and wheel loader ranges. The biggest seller in the excavator range is the EC750D, a 70 t machine, which is perfectly matched to the A40 hauler, but the smaller EC480D, ideal for smaller mines and quarries, is also in demand. The flagship of the range is the 90 t EC950E, which was launched locally in 2017 alongside the A60H. The wheeled loaders available from Babcock cover operating weights from 12 to 56 t with by far the biggest seller being the 25 t L150. Vaughan describes the demand for the machine as “unbelievable” and says there is currently a waiting list for delivery. The biggest – and newest – loader is the L350H, a 50 t machine which is the biggest ever built by Volvo CE. It features the latest technology to reduce fuel consumption, including Volvo’s Full Automatic Power Shift (FAPS) system, as well as a new load-sensing hydraulicsystem which works in greater harmony with the drive train, increasing response times significantly Vaughan adds that both the L150 and its bigger ‘brother’, the L220, are popular in slag operations and chrome handling. “One of our customers has some of our loaders operatingin a chrome smelter in Steelport in extremely harsh conditions. A remote-controlled solution was developed to allow operators to operate the machines from a safe position. “We believe this solution is the first of its kind in southern Africa.” Backing up the Volvo CE equipment in the field is an extensive dealer network which covers the whole of South Africa and extends into neighbouring countries such as Botswana, Namibia, Zimbabwe, Zambia and Mozambique. “We pride ourselves on being able to support our machines throughout our region, no matter how remote the sites they’re working on, and our dealer network plays a key role in achieving this objective,” states Vaughan. He adds that customers never have a problem reaching senior Babcock executives. “We have an extremely flat structure and managers, including myself, are very accessible. “We like to have a personal relationship with our customers.” He also notes that Babcock has a joint venture with Volvo Financial Services (VFS), a company which was launched in South Africa in 2017 and is backed up by Volvo’s global financing arm. The JV can offer Babcock customers tailormade – and sometimes very innovative – financing options. “Our financing experts understand the ebbs and flows of the mining industry and the impact that this can have on machine owners,” says Vaughan. “Solutions can be customised to match the customer’s business cycle.” Discussing the state of the market, Vaughan says that the pandemic delivered a body blow to the entire equipment supply industry. “Here in our region sales fell off a cliff at the onsetof the pandemic. The Construction and Mining Equipment Suppliers’ Association (CONMESA) says the number of machines being sold annually in the markets in which we compete dropped from around 4 500 to 5 000 a year to 3 500. Everyone was affected so 2020 was a poor year for sales. “Last year the market remained subdued but 2022 looks like being considerably better. We’re getting a large number of enquiries from customers reflecting the improving business conditions and, in particular, heightened activity in mining. We’re also seeing an easing of the global supply chain bottlenecks that have delayed machine deliveries. So overall, we’re optimistic about the coming year. We’re not necessarily expecting a bumper year but we do believe it will be far better than either 2020 or 2021,” he concludes.