Endeavour Mining, which owns and operates seven gold mines in Côte d’Ivoire, Senegal and Burkina Faso, has taken a pro-active stance in tackling the impact of malaria at its operations, which currently results in 2 000 workdays being lost due to worker absence. According a CDC report, Malaria is one of the most severe public health problems in Africa. It is a leading cause of death and disease in many developing countries, where young children and pregnant women are the groups most affected. Nearly half the world’s population lives in areas at risk of malaria transmission in 87 countries and territories, including West Africa. In 2020, Endeavour set itself the goal of reducing on-site instances of malaria by 10%. To meet this objective, it launched a malaria control programme across all its sites and ran an awareness campaign called Jour sans Malaria to alert its workers to the importance of the group’s various protocols and actions to combat the disease. The campaign slogan is “Having malaria is not normal”. Management also challenged sites to record days without a case of malaria being reported.New initiatives in 2020 included Endeavour’s Houndé mine in Burkina Faso investigating every malaria case and interviewing the people affected. Houndé, in fact, has been an excellent performer for several years now regarding malaria control, with cases decreasing by 67% from 552 in 2019 to 183 in 2020 and by 80% from 2018 to 2020. Endeavour’s malaria control programme includes indoor residual spraying throughout impacted communities, working with epidemiologists to identify the most effective chemicals to use, distributing impregnated nets and providing mosquito repellents to exposed workers (such as those working in the early evening when the risk is highest). In addition, all the mines make every effort to reduce pools of stagnant water on site as these are breeding grounds for mosquitoes. To give some idea of the scale of the effort, at the Ity mine in Côte d’Ivoire, Endeavour in 2020 sprayed 2 779 houses (8 342 rooms) in eight villages surrounding the mine, plus mine site buildings and accommodation. The company says that initial data show that these spraying and awareness efforts delivered positive results during the third quarter of 2020, with 46 fewer cases being reported compared to the same period in 2019, despite there being 410 more people on site. The malaria control programme has delivered positive results with the group-level malaria incidence rate (calculated per one million person hours) decreasing by 36% from 216.2 to 138.7. While Endeavour recorded 3 188 cases of malaria across its operations in 2020 at legacy Endeavour sites, the number of malaria cases was reduced by 38% compared to 2019.In 2021, as part of its continuing efforts to tackle the virus, Endeavour is aiming for a further 10% reduction in malaria cases as part of the group-wide annual target that forms part of the remuneration package for its employees and executives.