Karowe, one of the most successful diamond mines to have been developed anywhere in the world in recent years, is going underground, a move which will extend its life to at least 2040. The transition to underground mining is an essential stay-in-business project as the current open-pit operation will reach the end of its life in 2026. Located in the Orapa Diamond Field of Botswana, Karowe, which is owned by Canada’s Lucara Diamond Corp., was commissioned in 2012. Although not a particularly big producer (it expects to recover between 340 000 and 370 000 carats in 2021), it has a phenomenal record of recovering large, high quality gemstones. These have included three diamonds of over 1 000 carats, the most recent being recovered in June 2021 during an 11-day production run which produced several other large diamonds ranging from 67 to 148 carats. The new underground mine will involve a capex of US$534 million and – using conservative diamond price assumptions – is forecast to contribute approximately US$4 billion in additional revenues, starting in 2026. The project targets the substantial resources remaining below the open pit in the South Lobe of the AK6 kimberlite. A 7 200 tpd shaft operation utilising long hole shrinkage (LHS) mining will provide an additional 13 years of mine life to the Karowe operation after a five-year construction period. The mine will be accessed from a 767 m deep production shaft, 8.5 m in diameter, driven from surface. This will be equipped with two 21 t skips for production hoisting and a service cage for man and material movement through the mine. This shaft will also serve as the main fresh air intake to the mine. A second shaft, 6 m in diameter and driven 733 m deep from surface, will form the main ventilation exhaust pathway. Using the LHS method, it is planned to systematically drill and blast the entire South Lobe on a vertical retreat basis. LHS confers several advantages during the first years of underground operations, including access to the highest value portion of the lower South Lobe and the ability to undertake underground development simultaneously with open-pit operations. Pre-sinking of the two shafts will run in parallel and start with mobile cranes before transitioning to Scotch derrick cranes with the final depth of the pre-sink being approximately 40 m below surface. Changeover to the main sink is planned for Q2 2022. New power infrastructure will be required to cater for the combined demand of the existing operations and the underground mine development. To this end, Lucara negotiated and signed a self-build agreement with the Botswana Power Corporation (BPC) in 2020 for the construction of two substations and a 29 km, 132 kV transmission line from BPC’s Letlhakane substation to Karowe. Commissioning of the substations and the transmission line and handover to BPC are scheduled for Q4-2022. In the interim, temporary power for shaft sinking will be provided by temporary generators supplied by Aggreko International. Once in production, it will rank – if one ignores the small and currently non-operational Ghaghoo mine in the Central Kalahari – as Botswana’s only underground diamond mine (although it will be followed in due course by Debswana’s Jwaneng).