The mine of the future will require new skills to ensure that technology can truly ensure sustainable, safer, and optimised mining operations. It is equally important that such critical skills are learnt even before an employee can start working on a mine. To that end, South African tertiary institutions and private enterprise are taking a lead in teaching young people essential 4IR skills. For example, the Wits Mining Institute (WMI) at the University of the Witwatersrand (Wits) recently announced that it will host two of the new research centres established through the South African Mining Extraction Research, Development and Innovation (SAMERDI) strategy. The two SAMERDI Research Centres (SRCs) will focus their fundamental research on the themes of Real Time Information Management Systems (RTIMS) and Successful Application of Technology Centred Around People (SATCAP) respectively. These are two of the thematic areas pursued by the Mandela Mining Precinct (MMP) in Johannesburg, which is administered by the Council for Scientific and Industrial Research (CSIR). Ingrid Watson, acting director of the WMI, says they are proud to be involved in the foundational stage of this exciting endeavour. “These two research centres build on the WMI’s existing expertise and allow for further interdisciplinary research to inform a 21st century model of mining that is both sustainable and competitive,” says Watson. “Integral to the success of these efforts is the development of local capacity.” The SAMERDI strategy focuses on the modernisation pathway for mining to 2030, and the research centres will conduct fundamental research to create new knowledge about mining technology, data systems and processes associated with the sector, as well as a people-centric focus on the impact of modernisation on jobs; skills; environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues; and stakeholder inclusivity. Each research centre will be headed by a Research Competence Lead, and will host a postdoctoral student, a doctoral student and up to four master’s students in a three-year cycle. The outputs from the research centres will inform the applied research at the MMP, the results of which are felt on mine sites, in communities and throughout the mining value chain. These results will in turn inform the next iteration of the strategic focus for the fundamental research. Collaboration key to teaching 4IR skills In addition to the initiatives at WMI, the University of Pretoria (UP) is set to host the SRC for Mechanised Mining Systems in its Faculty of Engineering, Built Environment and Information Technology. “UP has been participating partners in the SAMERDI Strategy for several years. The strategy focuses on research into innovative mining methods and capacity building by training the new generation of mining researchers,” says Professor Francois Malan, head of the Mining Resilience Research Centre at UP, who will head the new centre. He explains that the centre will function as a multidisciplinary research initiative between the Departments of Mining Engineering, and Mechanical and Aeronautical Engineering. “It will establish research expertise in automated condition and performance assessment of rock and equipment from the parameters obtained during drilling and blasting operations. The practical implication of this is that maintenance of equipment can be done more proactively. “Furthermore, significantly more data can be obtained from the behaviour of rock mass behaviour. This will allow designs to be adapted if, for example, a harder or softer rock mass is encountered in different areas.” Prof Malan is excited about the collaboration between the departments. “Engineering disciplines often work in isolation. The mining industry will reap the benefits of this collaborative initiative as we can marry the insights of the rock engineering profession and the mechanical engineers.” The centre’s research activities relate to continuous rock drill condition assessment – an estimation of rock strength properties using selected mechanical parameters obtained during drilling – and the predictive maintenance management of mechanised mining equipment. “In simple terms, the ease of drilling into the rock can, for instance, be used to estimate the strength of the rock,” Prof Malan states. The focus of these centres is fundamental research: the basic and pure research that creates new knowledge about mining, technology and data, systems and processes, and the people associated with the sector. The outputs from this research will be aligned with and inform applied research at the MMP. “This fundamental, home-grown research is required, as South Africa possesses orebodies with a geometry that is unique in the world – this know-how cannot be imported from other countries,” Prof Malan states. “South Africa has a proud mining history, and we need dedicated research to generate new knowledge of how rock mass behaves and what the best mechanised equipment for our local mining conditions are.” Futureproofing young people Businesses are also playing a key role in developing the skills needed for the future of mining. Recently, Schauenburg Systems, a specialist in the field of mine safety and productivity, donated R800 000 towards the establishment and build of a digital lab helping young, unemployed people learn critical skills in the technology field. The company’s donation for the establishment of a digital lab at the Netcare Ulusha Hub at the Alex Mall in Alexandra, Johannesburg – an innovative entepreneurship facility which was established by Netcare together with YES (Youth Employment Service) – will enable the digital lab to offer courses aligned with the 4IR goals. “The Fourth Industrial Revolution is real, and it’s here,” says Dieter Kovar, CEO of Schauenburg International Africa Group. “The question remains though: Are we as a good corporate citizen futureproofing our workforce to make full use of technology and embrace 4IR with both arms? “Our digitalisation strategy so far has encompassed the two pillars of internal digitalisation of processes to become more productive and designing products that enhance customer experience through providing real-time solutions. With this investment, we go beyond and also skill-up the community.”