When the words tyre management system are mentioned, one often thinks of software, tyre monitoring systems and lots of tyre performance data. However, while digital systems can have a huge benefit on tracking the life of large mining tyres, in reality they are just a part of an entire approach. According to Brendan van Niekerk, CEO of Chemvulc Mining and Industrial Services, around 5% of the total mining budget is related to tyre costs. Chemvulc is a specialist manufacturer of complete repair systems for large mining tyres. It is also the African distributor of ESCO heavy duty OTR tyre service equipment and has been serving the tyre industry since 1977. “There are two big factors influencing tyre life: wear rate and premature failure. Getting some basics right can make a huge difference in improving the rate at which tyres wear and preventing premature failure,” Van Niekerk explains. A solid tyre maintenance programme According to the CEO, the tyre professional’s role is to ensure that the right tyre is selected for the application. This is based on the conditions on the mine, loads to be hauled and the distances and speed travelled in and out of the pit. He states that using the wrong tyre could mean excessive heat build-up in the tyre and drastically reduced tyre life. For example, long haul roads and higher speeds would require a tyre with a higher TKPH (tons-kilometres per hour) rating. Matching tyres on an axle, tyre rotations, pressure and tread depth checks are critical operational aspects of tyre management. To ensure even wear, tyre assemblies operating as dual pairs must have the same outside diameter, be from the same manufacturer and be of the same type (rating). A good OTR repair programme will also give a great return on investment. “Tyres that are suitable for repair can be put back into service, potentially adding thousands of kilometres of productive haulage. Repairing OTR tyres is a specialised field but is worth the investment in a high-quality repair facility,” adds Van Niekerk. Most large mine sites have an adequate tyre management strategy, but it is not implemented across the operation. Major external factors can determine tyre life, even with properly selected and maintained tyres. These other factors include haul road design and maintenance, vehicle maintenance and operator behaviour. Perhaps the single biggest improvements can be made by training operators to have more awareness around their tyres. A good starting point is to ensure a pre-shift inspection is done with a specific focus on tyres. Inspecting rim flanges and lug nuts, looking for cuts or damage to the tyre and a pressure check is a proactive approach to detecting potential problems before they become major issues that will affect downtime and productivity. Furthermore, routine inspections help increase profitability, while keeping personnel, sites, and tyres safe. Putting it all together – systems and data Van Niekerk explains that there are some great software systems that can help automate many of the monitoring functions of a tyre management programme. “Tyre pressure and temperature monitoring systems (TPMS) have been around for some time and – combined with GPS monitoring, tyre pressures and temperatures of tyres together with vehicle speeds, turning and braking – offer very rich information on how tyres will fare under various conditions,” he states. The CEO adds that there is still some potential for the development of more integrated systems that can manage tyre life, and with Artificial Intelligence (AI) and Internet of Things (IoT) the possibilities are endless. “Getting the basics in place will go a long way to improving operational efficiencies about tyre management. Investing in the right tyre service equipment and quality repairs, performing regular tyre surveys, and operators who drive with their tyres in mind, a lot goes into managing the longevity of tyres. Software can digitise most of the daily monitoring, but without the right systems and people on the ground, there is also a risk of GIGO (garbage in, garbage out),” he concludes.