The fourth industrial revolution has come in full swing for mining companies. A research report by Inmarsat, the world leader in global, mobile satellite communications, has revealed that mining organizations are gaining confidence in maintaining environmental sustainability through Iot Technologies. The report states that 60 % of mining organizations who sought improved environmental sustainability and productivity have had their investments met and surpassed in other cases, through the IoT adoption during the COVID-19 peak. Despite these benefits, many mining organisations continue to face several key barriers when deploying IoT. Unreliable connectivity, inadequate data strategies, and a lack of skills are hampering many businesses’ ability to reap the rewards of IoT. In addition, a lack of in-house skills in IoT projects is still a challenge. For Mining companies without a formal IoT strategy in place, this is particularly acute. “It is positive to see IoT adoption in mining is not only led by a desire to build on operational efficiencies, such as improving decision-making and staff productivity but to contribute to wider issues such as environmental sustainability,” said Nicholas Prevost, Director of Mining at Inmarsat Enterprise. “Yet not enough mining businesses are able to reap these rewards, as inadequate connectivity and skills gaps are holding them back from gains they could be making. Formalising IoT strategies, collaborating more with IoT providers, and focusing on in-house skills development would stand companies in much better stead to benefit from the extensive capabilities the technology provides for remote operations” he added. Commenting on the findings, Mike Carter, President of Inmarsat Enterprise said: “The efficiency gains IoT can deliver, in addition to the huge environmental benefits, paints a clear picture as to why most organisations are pursuing IoT. But to get the optimum benefits from their IoT deployments, organisations must ensure they have all the right skillsets and connectivity requirements in place.” The research shows that organisations struggling to implement the right connectivity strategies are lagging behind their peers, and those with a formal IoT strategy are better placed to reap the benefits of optimised and more sustainable operations.” “We can see that too many businesses still struggle to deploy IoT projects due to unreliable, insecure, or poor connectivity. This is where satellite IoT connectivity can play a key role. Some of the most valuable data often hails from the hardest to reach places, so investing in effective collection, storage and analysis of that data is crucial to successful IoT strategies” he ended.