An exploration strategy has been published by the South African Department of Minerals and Energy aims to make the most of the country’s comparatively advanced infrastructure and mining expertise. The strategy also aims to shrug off the country’s historical dependence on gold to focus instead on metals used in electric vehicles, battery storage and the production of hydrogen. A quote from the document reads: “With the declining gold resources, the appeal of industry now lies in the minerals of the future.” South Africa’s global dominance in gold supply for several decades is ending with production petering out as deposits get deeper and more expensive to access. This is tempered by the fact that the country still having the largest reserves of PGMs, vanadium, chrome, and manganese. The document highlights challenges in the mining sector being poor policy implementation, poor geoscientific data, insufficient electricity generation, frequent strikes, and community unrest. RELATED:Putting mining exploration in the spotlightThe mining sectors’ full potential starts when red tape bottlenecks stopVedanta board approves R7 billion towards Gamsberg expansion These issues partly explain why South Africa has ranked in the world’s ten least attractive mining destinations in the latest Fraser Institute’s Annual Survey of Mining Companies 2021. Minerals Council South Africa’s CEO has stated the council is deeply disappointed, and the ranking serves as a warning that the country is headed in the wrong direction when it comes to attracting investment to its resources sector. “South Africa is slipping sharply down the ranks when measured in the Investment Attractiveness Index, falling to 75 out of the 84 jurisdictions surveyed. This compares to 60th out of 77 in 2020 and 40th out of 76 in the previous year. The Investment Attractiveness Index is weighted 40% by policy and 60% by mineral potential,” explains Baxter. South Africa’s ranking in the 2021 Investment Attractiveness Index, which is a policy and mineral potential metric, is the worst since 2009. The Minerals Council has also stated the backlog of more than 4,000 mining and prospecting rights as well as mineral right transfer applications within the department is of major concern to the as is the slow progress to replace the failed SAMRAD cadastral system with a modern, transparent, corruption-free, online system. Both these issues are curtailing much-needed investment in exploration and the development of a junior mining sector. “We welcome the certainty brought by the High Court judgment in September 2021 that the Mining Charter is a policy rather than regulatory document, that the continuing consequences of previous black economic empowerment deals should be recognised and that the specific provisions around procurement in the document, should be removed. The Minerals Council and its members remain committed to transformation of the mining industry and to go beyond the provisions in the Charter,” concludes Baxter.