A global resources sector already primed by ready finance, international COVID-19 recovery plans linked to infrastructure projects, and ambitious decarbonisation targets is now facing more supply chain uncertainties and rising resource nationalism fears created by Russia’s invasion of Ukraine. Concerns of added supply constraints sparked by the Ukraine war are reflected in rocketing prices for nickel, and feeding into price increases for manganese, cobalt, lithium, copper, rare earths and critical minerals. The 2022 CRU World Copper Conference in March was told miners needed to spend $100 billion on new mines to counter a supply shortage likely to be around 4.7 Mt by 2030. RELATED:Russia’s ruthlessness affects supply of metals for low-carbon techThe Kremlin poses a threat to the global mineral balanceFitch Ratings raises global metals and mining price assumptionsNickel sanctions would slow EV adoption and decarbonization agenda Lynas, Australia’s biggest rare earths miner, and Iuka Resources are both beneficiaries of Australian Government support to develop the sector, diversify supply chains and break China’s dominance. Critical minerals are used widely, including in mobile phones, flat screen monitors, wind turbines, electric cars, solar panels, and defence and other high-tech applications. Australia has the world’s third largest reserves of lithium and is the largest producer of lithium in the world. It is ranked sixth in the world for rare earth elements and second for production and it has large resources of cobalt, manganese, tantalum, tungsten, and zirconium. Lynas received a $14.8 million grant through the $2 billion Critical Minerals Fund to commercialise a new refining process that will be used at a new processing facility in Kalgoorlie, and Iluka Resources received  $1.2 billion of support to build Australia’s first fully-integrated rare earths refinery. IMDEX Chief Geoscientist Dave Lawie — who has raised concerns previously about resource nationalism and the capacity of the resources sector to find and mine enough of the minerals needed in a net-zero world — says the sector is now being hit by a confluence of world events. “Just as COVID-19 exposed the fragility of supply chains, so the geopolitical ramifications of the invasion of Ukraine and the wide-ranging sanctions against Russia will have effects on how countries view their resources,” Dr Lawie said. “You can expect to see some countries jealously guarding their deposits of future facing minerals, at the time some of the world’s major mining companies are deciding it’s time to explore their options in what until now have been considered risky mining jurisdictions. “The problem is that some of these jurisdictions bring intrinsic issues around environmental, social, and governance factors. “Just as conflict diamonds have a bad reputation, so cobalt from the Democratic Republic of Congo — with the widespread issues of artisanal mining — is similarly tainted. “We could get to the point where battery makers will have to say where their cobalt comes from and that it doesn’t come from artisanal mines, especially in the DRC. “And when it comes to palladium, nickel and cobalt, one of the biggest mines in the world is Norilsk in Russia. Could it be that car manufacturers will declare that their cars are made with no minerals from Russia? “At the same time, the pressure is on to find new and reliable deposits of minerals such as lithium, copper, cobalt, nickel, and others that are vital to renewable energy projects. “While hydrogen may be seen as the answer to replacing fossil fuels and the energy source of the future, it can’t be done without renewable power from solar and wind. And the components for those power plants can’t be manufactured without a host of metals.” A survey by Canadian think-tank the Fraser Institute found Western Australia to be the world’s top mining jurisdiction in 2021, edging out Nevada which topped the ranking in 2020. Recent figures published by WA’s Department of Mines, Industry Regulation, and Safety, revealed that the State’s resources sector achieved record sales of $230 billion in 2021, driven by iron ore, gold, and lithium amid supply constraints and geopolitical uncertainty. Countries at the bottom of the Fraser Institute table included Zimbabwe, the Democratic Republic of Congo, and parts of South and Central America, raising the issue of risk versus reward in searching for the next major deposits to replace depleted existing resources. Dr Lawie said that such was the speed of change in the resources sector, zinc, once seen as unsexy, is growing in importance. The US Geological Society recently added zinc and nickel to its list of critical minerals. “Zinc is actually very difficult to find,” Dr Lawie said. “Exploration of zinc has been under funded for maybe 20 years. A lot of the technical exploration methods we use in exploration don’t see zinc very well and there are just less big world class deposits of zinc than there are copper and nickel.” The Australian Government has doubled down on its support for the critical minerals and rare earths sector, announcing a 2022 Critical Minerals Strategy, which Prime Minister Scott Morrison said would support the growth of the sector. “The world is becoming a more uncertain place and we want to secure Australia as a reliable partner for local and global businesses that need the critical minerals we have right here,” Mr Morrison said. “We’ll dig them up right here. We’ll refine them right here. We’ll look to make the products that use them right here.” Even before Russia’s military move, Goldman Sachs head of commodities research Jeff Currie was declaring a “molecule crisis”. “We’re out of everything,” he said. “I don’t care if tis oil, gas, coal, copper, aluminium, you name it we’re out of it.” For Dr Lawie, the world is not “out of everything” but finding and mining the metals and minerals required is getting harder and more expensive, and the jurisdictions in which companies may have to operate have questionable political and social systems. “We can see the future but getting there means navigating a host of conflicting issues that could require fundamental reassessments of countries’ approach to their resources,” he said.