Multi-listed Endeavour Mining has announced that it will soon launch the construction of its Sabodala-Massawa expansion in Senegal. The news comes in the wake of a recently completed Definitive-Feasibility Study (DFS). The DFS recommends the expansion of the Sabodala-Massawa complex by supplementing the current 4.2 Mtpa carbon-in-leach (CIL) plant with a 1.2 Mtpa BIOX plant to process the high-grade refractory ores from the Massawa Central Zone and Massawa North Zone deposits. Construction will commence in Q2-2022 with first gold pour from the BIOX plant expected in early 2024. Endeavour acquired the Sabodala-Massawa mine from Teranga Gold in February 2021, prior to which Teranga Gold acquired the Massawa project from Barrick Gold in March 2020, combining the Sabodala mill and deposits with the nearby Massawa deposits. As such, the Sabodala-Massawa mine consists of two mining licenses, the Sabodala exploitation permit and the Massawa exploitation permit and two further exploration permits. The Sabodala licence is held by Sabodala Gold Operations SA while the Massawa license is held by Massawa SA . Endeavour holds indirectly through its subsidiaries a 90% stake in each of SGO and Massawa with the Government of Senegal holding the remaining interest. In August 2020, Teranga Gold filed a Preliminary Feasibility Study (PFS) for the phased expansion of Sabodala-Massawa. In 2021, Endeavour expedited the completion of the initial upgrades at the existing Sabodala-Massawa CIL plant and simultaneously advanced the DFS for the addition of a refractory ore processing plant to confirm the economic viability of processing the high-grade refractory ores from the Massawa Central Zone and Massawa North Zone deposits. Read more about gold Highlights include: Potential to be a top-tier mine Sébastien de Montessus, president and CEO of Endeavour Mining, said: “We are extremely pleased with both the current performance of Sabodala-Massawa and the DFS results as they demonstrate the asset’s potential to be a top tier mine capable of producing in excess of 400 000 ozpa at an industry-leading AISC. “We believe we are well positioned to unlock the full value of the Sabodala-Massawa complex as we have significantly de-risked the project by integrating key changes into the DFS, based on experience gained from operating the asset and the results of further technical analysis, and we have highly experienced operating and construction teams already in place.”