Altus Strategies has announced the appointment of Michael Starke as VP Corporate Development with immediate effect. Starke has over 14 years’ experience in corporate finance in the natural resources industry. He was previously Corporate Finance Manager for SolGold, prior to which he worked for eight years with Standard Bank (London) in investment banking and mining equity research with a primary focus on Africa. RELATED:Altus Strategies to sell Aterian Resources to EastincoAltus Strategies appoints new Chairman and director for Akh GoldSignificant new prospect defined at Diba gold projectDiscovery of a new zone of mineralisation Altus Strategies’ Tabakorole He holds a BSc in Geology and an MSc in Environmental Geochemistry from the University of Cape Town and is registered with the South African Council for Natural Scientific Professions (SACNASP). Steven Poulton, Chief Executive of Altus, commented: “We are delighted to welcome Michael to the team at what is an important stage in the Company’s growth trajectory. Michael’s highly relevant corporate finance expertise will support and enhance our ability to identify, create and realise value from our growing and diversified portfolio of projects and royalties. “He will also manage the Company’s corporate communications, ensuring our shareholders as well as all other key stakeholders are provided with the latest information with regard to our plans and progress. “In the last six months alone, Altus has closed two transformational transactions and made notable progress across its portfolio of projects. The Company has acquired up to 25 primarily copper and gold royalties on mines and projects in Chile, Côte d’Ivoire and Australia for approximately US$58 million. “These royalties are expected to generate significant after tax cashflow to Altus of approximately US$6.4 million in 2022 and US$10 million in 2023. During the same period, among other developments, Altus commenced the ongoing resource expansion drilling programme at our Diba gold project in Mali, announced highly encouraging reconnaissance findings from our gold projects in Egypt and commenced the potential divestment of our Moroccan base metal portfolio. “We anticipate a number of material project and royalty developments in the year ahead and I look forward to updating the market on these in due course.”