Zululand Anthracite Colliery (ZAC), a Menar Group Company, has built and handed over 28 ablution units to rural communities located in the Zululand District Municipality of KwaZulu-Natal. The units are located in the mine-hosting Traditional Council communities of Mlaba, Zungu, Mandlakazi and Matheni. The facilities cost over R419 600 to build and were constructed by Conrite Projects, a contractor appointed by ZAC. The company used local labour and materials to complete the project. ZAC Community Liaison Officer Levi Nyandeni noted that the facilities were designed for use in water-scarce communities. “They utilise a dry sanitation system owing to the water constraints faced in the area,” Nyandeni said. READ MORE ARTICLES ABOUT ZULULAND ANTHRACITE COLLIERY ZAC Sustainable Development Manager Khumbulani ‘Skopion’ Masuku said: “The toilets were constructed as part of a community development project undertaken by ZAC to assist poor households in the mine-hosting communities to improve their sanitation facilities.” Community members expressed their appreciation for ZAC’s efforts to improve their living conditions. Celani Z Mchunu, a mother of two small children, and a resident of the Mlaba Traditional Council said: “These toilets are an invaluable addition to our community and have significantly improved the hygiene situation for my family. They are safe to use for adults and children which provides parents with peace of mind” Sihle Mlaba, who is also from Mlaba, said: “We are very thankful to ZAC for providing us with these new toilets. Having proper ablution facilities brings a heightened sense of dignity to our community.” Menar COO Bradley Hammond stated said the need for lavatories was identified in partnership with local government. “Basic sanitation is something that many take for granted, but in impoverished communities like the ones that host ZAC, private companies need to assist the government wherever possible,” Hammond said. “We are happy that we have been able to improve these residents’ sanitation situation. The provision of safe, hygienic and permanent ablution facilities forms part of our group’s long-term commitment to uplift communities.”