Prospect Resources has provided the following update on conditions precedent to the transaction previously announced between, among other parties, Prospect’s 100%-owned subsidiary Prospect Minerals and Huayou International Mining. The Transaction is for the sale of Prospect’s 87% interest in the Arcadia Lithium Project and associated intercompany loan to a subsidiary of new energy lithium-ion battery material producer, Zhejiang Huayou Cobalt, for approximately US$377.8 million in upfront cash consideration. Huayou has notified Prospect that it has obtained the outbound investment certificate for the Transaction from the Ministry of Commerce of the People’s Republic of China (MOFCOM) required for completion of the Transaction. Application for filing and registration by the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC) has been submitted by Huayou. Once completing the filing and registration by NDRC, Huayou will apply for the relevant exchange registrations from a qualified bank supervised by the State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE) and these confirmations are expected to be received in due course. Prospect advises that it has executed a Deed of Termination and Release with Sinomine Resource (Hong Kong) International Trading with respect to the offtake and marketing arrangements between Prospect, Prospect Lithium Zimbabwe and Sinomine. The terms of the Termination Deed take effect upon completion of the binding Share Sale Agreement governing the Transaction. The effect will be that the Offtake Agreement is terminated and Prospect, PLZ and Sinomine are released from their respective obligations, and Sinomine will receive an amount of US$8 million as required under the Termination Deed. The terms of the Termination Deed only take effect in the event of completion of the Transaction. If the Transaction is not completed, the terms of the Termination Deed do not take effect, and the status quo prevails. Termination of the Offtake Agreement is a condition precedent to completion of the Transaction. The parties to the Transaction have confirmed that this condition precedent will have been satisfied once the Termination Deed takes effect, and Huayou has confirmed to Prospect that it will not rely on this condition precedent as a reason not to proceed to completion if all other conditions precedent have been satisfied or waived. Sinomine remains a 4.86% shareholder in Prospect.