Base Resources has provided a quarterly operational, development and corporate update. Mining operations continued to plan on the South Dune orebody with mined tonnage decreasing slightly due to planned maintenance shutdowns and lower mining rates. The heavy mineral (HM) grade of ore mined in the quarter was higher at 3.82% (last quarter: 3.26%) as mining progressed towards the centre of the South Dune orebody. Wet concentrator plant (WCP) production of heavy mineral concentrate (HMC) was higher at 153 kt (last quarter: 134 kt) because of the higher ore grade. HMC stocks increased to 23kt (last quarter: 17 kt). Sand tails continued to be deposited into the mined-out Central Dune area and capped with a 2 m thick co-disposed slimes/sand layer to aid water retention and subsequent rehabilitation and alternate land use. Rehabilitation of the Central Dune slopes and plateau continued to plan and agricultural trials on the co-disposed water retention layer proved successful. Rehabilitation of the mined-out sections of the South Dune proceeded as scheduled. Mineral separation plant (MSP) feed tonnage of 146 kt was higher than the prior quarter (last quarter: 137 kt), due to increased HMC feed availability. Production of ilmenite was significantly higher in the quarter due to increased MSP recoveries of 102% (last quarter: 100%) and an elevated proportion of ilmenite in the mineral assemblage. Underlying MSP product recoveries for rutile and zircon were steady and their production was in line with expectations. Bulk loading operations at Kwale Operations Likoni export facility continued to run smoothly, dispatching a combined 138 kt of bulk ilmenite and rutile during the quarter (last quarter: 54 kt). Containerised shipments of rutile and zircon through the Mombasa Port proceeded to plan. Total cash operating costs of US$18.1 million increased compared to the prior quarter (last quarter at US$16.9 million) due to higher mining and maintenance costs. However, the increased production volumes resulted in lower unit operating costs of US$161 per tonne produced (rutile, ilmenite, zircon, and low-grade zircon) (last quarter: US$174 per tonne). Cost of goods sold decreased to US$156 per tonne sold (operating costs, adjusted for stockpile movements, and royalties) due to the sales mix (last quarter: US$264 per tonne), as did average unit revenue of US$459 per tonne (prior quarter: US$668 per tonne). Due to these factors, the revenue to cost of goods sold ratio for the quarter increased to 2.9 (last quarter: 2.5). At the end of the quarter, 100% of Kwale Operations employees had received at least one dose of COVID-19 vaccine, with 76% fully vaccinated. Boosters are scheduled to commence early in 2022. Kwale Operations production guidance for the 2022 financial year (FY22) remains at: In November 2019, the Government of Madagascar required the Company to suspend on-the-ground activity on the Toliara Project while discussions on fiscal terms applying to the project were progressed. Activity remains suspended as Base Resources continues to engage with the Government in relation to the country’s Large Mining Investment Law (LGIM) regime, fiscal terms applicable to the Toliara Project and lifting of the on-the-ground suspension. In September 2021, the Company completed an enhanced Definitive Feasibility Study (DFS2) for the Toliara Project to incorporate an update to the estimated Ranobe Ore Reserves and an increase in project scale. The outcomes of DFS2, compared to the earlier 2019 DFS, included substantially improved forecast financial returns for the Toliara Project, including a post-tax/pre-debt (real) NPV10 of US$1.0 billion and an average revenue to cost of sales ratio of 3.5, over an initial 38-year mine life. The DFS2 schedule assumes construction will commence at the start of 2023, at a capital cost of US$520 million, which would see production starting in early 2025. However, timing of the Final Investment Decision (FID) to proceed with construction of the Toliara Project remains subject to lifting of the suspension of on[1]the-ground activities and agreeing acceptable fiscal terms with the Government of Madagascar. Once these two key milestones are achieved, there will be approximately 11 months’ work to complete prior to reaching FID, including finalisation of funding, completion of land acquisition, conclusion of major construction contracts and entering into offtake agreements with customers. Resumption of reasonable international travel will also be required to complete a significant portion of this pre-FID work. The Company maintains readiness to accelerate progress when conditions support.