South Africa-based vibrating screen and feeder specialist Kwatani will soon add another installation to its extensive footprint in the Northern Cape, this time for a greenfields expansion of a new customer in the iron ore mining segment. “We have over 1,000 screens, grizzlies and feeders in this important mining region, giving us a market share of about 95% of heavy-duty screening applications there,” says Jan Schoepflin, Kwatani’s general manager: sales and service. “With our well-established branch in Kathu, we are also able to assure our new customer of quick and highly competent service levels.” The ore characteristics of iron ore demands mechanically robust screening equipment and Kwatani has built a name for itself in these applications, according to metallurgist Frengelina Mabotja, Kwatani’s head of sales for SADC. “Our equipment is engineered for tonnage and continuous throughput, without compromising efficiencies.” Kwatani’s scope of work on the 700 tonne-per-hour dry processing plant includes a1,5 metre wide grizzly screen to remove fines from the run-of-mine material before it reports to secondary crushing and a 1.5 metre single deck scalping screen. The company will also install two 2,4 metre wide, double-deck sizing screens to separate material after secondary crushing, and five feeders to draw material from bins and stockpiles onto conveyor belts for feeding onto the downstream process. “Our niche expertise allowed us to once again offer high performance sizing screens customised for this unique dry sizing application and optimise material separation by achieving the required cut size for the customer’s desired product size,” says Mabotja. “Our solution optimises the material separation while maximising efficiency and ensuring mechanical reliability for continuous and economical production.” She highlights the depth of in-house experience – from both a metallurgical and mechanical approach– which allows Kwatani to assist the decision-making of customers on equipment choice and specifications. With 47 years in the vibrating screen and feeder business, the company can bring its myriad lessons in the field to bear on each project. “Through the work of our design team, supported by our manufacturing and testing facilities, we have ensured that the solution will be fit for purpose and reliable,” she says. “The customer was also able to visit our 17,000 square metre local manufacturing operation in Kempton Park regularly to see how we work, to check on fabrication progress and to witness the testing process.” This level of engagement with customers builds their confidence in Kwatani’s ability, as they can experience first-hand the systematic, quality-controlled approach to design and manufacturing. The company’s extensive facility is ISO 9001:2015 certified. The equipment was completed on a tight deadline of 8 to 12 weeks, for delivery by year-end in line with the customer’s timeframe. “Our fully-equipped branch in the Northern Cape, staffed by specialists with decades of mining experience, will oversee the installation and commissioning of the equipment,” says Mabotja. “Our team will also schedule regular site visits to monitor on the equipment’s performance and condition, and advise on maintenance requirements.” To underpin the reliable operation of all equipment supplied, Kwatani will also provide training for the customer’s maintenance personnel in the basic maintenance routines required.