CSE-listed Asante Gold Corporation has appointed PW Mining (Ghana) to conduct mining activities at its Bibiani Mine. Open pit mining operations will start in February, to include development of satellite pits and provide feed material to the Process Plant from Q2 2022. Main pit development, to its planned ultimate +350 metres depth in 2029, includes a 4-stage cut back programme.  Total material movement will be up to 75 Mtpa. PW Mining will mobilise up to 125 units of heavy equipment, including drills, excavators, haulage trucks, bulldozers, and ancillary equipment. Site establishment includes construction of a heavy equipment maintenance facility, offices, and a training centre.PW Mining has been in operation in Ghana since 1994 and has delivered projects for many major mining companies in Ghana, including most recently for the Asanko Gold (Galiano Gold) Obotan mine. PW Mining employs a highly trained and motivated workforce in West Africa, with Ghanaians representing over 98% of its staff. In 2016 and 2019, the Ghana Chamber of Mines awarded PW Mining the Mining Services Contactor of the Year Award for outstanding service and for being a Mining Industry leader. Read: Reawakening a sleeping giant Major boost for local employmentMore than 850 people will be employed by PW Mining at the Bibiani site. Having previously been contracted to mine at Bibiani, PW Mining is well known to the local communities where most of its workforce will be sourced. Asante and PW Mining are committed to employ more than 70% of the mine workers from the immediate community. To support achievement of this objective, a training centre will be built and equipped with a state-of-the art heavy equipment simulator facility, ensuring operators are trained and certified to the highest industry standards. Refurbishment of the Process Plant was initiated in September 2021 and remains on track and on budget for first gold pour in Q3 2022. To achieve this objective, more than 900 people have been working on site. Douglas MacQuarrie, President & CEO stated, “Our Team has been impressed by the quality of people, resources, and record of success in the mining business that PW Mining brings to the Bibiani mine. Asante looks forward to working with PW Mining, and all our other project partners, to continue to deliver a safe and successful operation.”