Atlantic Lithium has announced further high-grade infill drilling results at the Ewoyaa Lithium Project in Ghana, West Africa, where the Company recently announced an updated Scoping Study and increased JORC resource of 21.3 Mt @ 1.31% Li2O, resulting in a significant improvement in project economics and LOM. Commenting on the Company’s latest progress, Vincent Mascolo, CEO of Atlantic Lithium, said: “The ongoing infill drilling results received continue to confirm mineralisation grade and continuity were tested across the Ewoyaa deposit. “First assay results received over the Kaampakrom West target are encouraging and have returned good grades and widths outside of the current resource footprint which will add further tonnes. “Additional assay results received over the Ewoyaa Sill target continue to impress, with mineralisation occurring in flat lying structures favourable for tonnage addition and low strip ratio. “We have reported our second highest metal content and one of our deepest drill intersections to date with the hole open in mineralisation, highlighting the potential for further resource expansion. “An additional 11,800 m of drilling results are pending, predominantly within the Kaampakrom West and Ewoyaa Sill targets outside of the current resource. “The Company is targeting >80% resource conversion from inferred to indicated over the recently upgraded 21.3 Mt @ 1.31% Li2O JORC resource, as well as a targeted tonnage increase to over 24Mt in support of a 12- year mine life for future studies. “Our resource continues to grow, and the upside of the Project is clear. As such, we believe that the project metrics will improve beyond the current defined Life of Mine. It is estimated by the company that every additional year of production will add up to c. US$60 million in post-tax NPV per annum. “These fundamentals continue to demonstrate Ewoyaa as an industry-leading asset and, with the Company being ideally poised to benefit from the growing lithium market, we look forward to progressing the Project towards production and establishing Atlantic Lithium as new player in the lithium supply chain.” Atlantic Lithium – further high-grade infill drilling results at the Ewoyaa Lithium Project in Ghana, West Africa, where the Company recently announced an updated Scoping Study and increased JORC resource of 21.3Mt @ 1.31% Li2Ohttps://t.co/xmi4yvTRU7#ALL $ALLIF #Lithium pic.twitter.com/UGMWynnD4B