Anglo American Platinum has announced its inclusion for the third year in a row, and since inception, in the 2022 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index (GEI), highlighting its commitment to creating an inclusive and diverse workplace where colleagues are encouraged and empowered to bring their whole selves to work every day. The GEI is a modified market capitalization-weighted index that aims to track the performance of public companies committed to transparency in gender-data reporting. This reference index measures gender equality across five pillars: female leadership & talent pipeline, equal pay & gender pay parity, inclusive culture, anti-sexual harassment policies, and pro-women brand. Anglo American Platinum is one of 418 companies across 45 countries and regions who were included this year. Member companies represent a variety of sectors, including financials, technology, and utilities, which collectively have the highest company representation in the index. Anglo American Platinum CEO Natascha Viljoen said: “Anglo American Platinum is once again pleased to be included in Bloomberg’s Gender-Equality Index. In line with our purpose to re-imagine mining to improve people’s lives, we continue to be committed to creating a culture where all employees – regardless of race, gender, class, or religious background can be their whole selves in the workplace. “We have made great strides in improving the representation of women across all levels of the company, but we know that we face numerous challenges – including accelerating our commitment to combat gender-based violence. Our commitment to inclusion and diversity is an important ingredient in making sure that we continue to attract and retain top talent in the industry and make a positive impact on society.” Chairman of Bloomberg, Peter T. Grauer said: “We are proud to recognize Anglo American Platinum and the other 417 companies included in the 2022 GEI for their commitment to transparency and setting a new standard in gender-related data reporting. Even though the threshold for inclusion in the GEI has risen, the member list continues to grow. This is a testament that more companies are working to improve upon their gender-related metrics, fostering more opportunity for diverse talent to succeed in their organizations.”