Anglo American Platinum has agreed to dispose of its 50% interest in the Kroondal pool-and-share agreement (Kroondal PSA) and the Marikana pool-and-share agreement (Marikana PSA), to Sibanye-Stillwater, the other 50% owner of the PSAs. CEO of Anglo-American Platinum, Natascha Viljoen said: “We are pleased to have agreed to sell our 50% interest in the PSAs to Sibanye-Stillwater. Whilst the Marikana operation is on care and maintenance, the Kroondal operation has a short mine life under the current PSA terms. “By enabling Kroondal to mine through the boundary at Sibanye-Stillwater’s Rustenburg operations, we will extract our attributable share of the Kroondal reserves more quickly and efficiently than under the previous mine plan, unlocking greater value for Anglo American Platinum and Sibanye-Stillwater. “This transaction will also allow for the Kroondal life-of-mine to be extended under Sibanye-Stillwater’s ownership, sustaining employment at the operation for longer.” Sibanye-Stillwater currently operates the Kroondal operation, which is located adjacent to, and up-dip of Sibanye-Stillwater’s Rustenburg operation and the shallow Klipfontein open pit operation. The Kroondal operation is subject to a 50/50 pool and share agreement Kroondal PSA between Kroondal Operations and RPM. Sibanye-Stillwater CEO Neal Froneman commented: “We welcome this mutually beneficial transaction which, through the full consolidation of these operations under a single owner will unlock significant value for all stakeholders by extending the operating life of the Kroondal operation, which as a standalone operation, was constrained by the existing PSA agreement. “We are unlocking the true potential of these adjacent mines by utilising the mechanised and low cost Kroondal operation to mine across the boundary with the Rustenburg operation. This will accelerate the extraction of more remote parts of the Rustenburg operation orebody, sustain employment for more than 2,500 people until 2029 and ensure the creation of significant value for all stakeholders in the region.”