Impala Platinum Holdings has issued its Offer Circular to the shareholders of Royal Bafokeng Platinum (RBPlat). The purpose of the Offer Circular is to provide RBPlat shareholders with information relating to Implats’ offer to acquire all the RBPlat shares (other than Treasury shares) that it does not already hold. As of 7 January 2022, Implats held 102,059,866 RBPlat shares, representing approximately 35.31% of the shares in issue. The Offer Circular also sets out the way the offer will be implemented. RELATED:Implats updates acquisition of further shares in Royal Bafokeng PlatinumImplats to acquire additional Royal Bafokeng Platinum shares Nico Muller, CEO of Implats, says: “Our value-focused strategy is to increase exposure to low cost, shallow, mechanised assets, enhancing the positioning of the Implats Group with a quality portfolio of high-value operations that are sustainable and competitive through the cycle. “The proposed acquisition of additional RBPlat shares will provide a structure that offers compelling strategic, operational and financial benefits for all Implats and RBPlat stakeholders. It secures a Western Limb production base that enhances and entrenches the region’s position as the most significant source of global primary PGM production and will deliver tangible socio-economic benefits for the region, its communities, and South Africa as a whole, including employment security and sustained indirect benefits for the greater-Rustenburg region.” He adds, “The level of ownership in RBPlats achieved by Implats to date is indicative of the broad support we have received and affirms the strategic rationale and value proposition provided by this acquisition.” The offer provides a compelling value proposition for RBPlat shareholders by crystallising inherent equity value at an attractive premium through the receipt of a combination of cash and high quality and liquid scrip in Implats. This in turn offers: • Exposure to a global portfolio of PGM assets, projects, and a toll refining business, which is well-positioned to capture the benefits of the full PGM value chain through integrated processing facilities, including wholly owned smelters, as well as base and precious metal refineries. • The opportunity to benefit from regionally diverse production growth across shallow, mechanised operations on the Eastern Limb of the Bushveld Complex, Canada and Zimbabwe and the planned expansion of installed processing capacity. • The best position to deliver future operational benefits of significant, unique regional synergies presented by these contiguous operations, given Implats’ comprehensive experience of the ore body and its ability to leverage cost-effective opportunities for future growth. • An attractive and sustainable dividend yield underpinned by clear and disciplined capital allocation priorities and a strong and flexible balance sheet.