Tietto Minerals has provided a project development update for its fully funded 3.35 Moz Abujar Gold Project in Côte d’Ivoire, West Africa for November 2021. Tietto is targeting first gold at Abujar in Q4,2022. Tietto Managing Director, Dr Caigen Wang, said: “I am very pleased to provide shareholders with our second project development update for Abujar. I would like to thank and congratulate our build team and contractors for their commitment to safety, continuing to work LTI free during December. RELATED:Tietto hits multiple high grade gold interceptsDevelopment of Tietto’s Abujar project gains momentumTietto’s Abujar gold project fully funded to production “With completed settlement of the second tranche of our recent capital raise, we are now fully funded to production at Abujar, which has potential to be one of the largest gold producing mines in Côte d’Ivoire, expected to produce more than 260,000 oz of gold in the first year and 1.2 Moz of gold in the first six years. “I look forward to providing further updates during the year as construction advances the Abujar Gold Project towards first gold by the end of Q4 CY22 and becomes West Africa’s next gold mine.” Bulk earthworks have been completed for the process plant and camp area. Construction is progressing well on the administration office, cafeteria building, and the first 120 camp rooms. The civil concrete contractor mobilized to site and has poured blinding concrete for CIL ring beams. Tietto purchased 14 dump trucks and two Hitachi excavators for the bulk earthworks at Abujar, which arrived on site during the month and are in operation. The second tranche of Tietto’s A$85 million Placement1 was approved by shareholders on 7 January 2022 and shares issued on 17 January 2022. The capital raising complements Tietto’s debt strategy, where the Company mandated Taurus Mining Finance Fund No.2 L.P. to deliver an underwritten Project Development Facility of up to US$140 million of debt funding for the US$200 million project. 1. Continue to drive rapid resource growth at the 3.35 Moz Abujar Gold Project; and 2. Fast‐track development of Abujar Gold Project to achieve first gold in Q4 CY22. Tietto continues to deliver milestones during 2021 and key findings from its 5 October 2021 DFS demonstrated robust financial results and estimated gold production of 260,000 oz in the first year and 200, 000 oz per year over the first six years of Abujar’s 11‐year mine life. The Company is negotiating the final regulatory step, the Abujar Mining Convention, with the Ivorian Government, having already secured all mining and environmental approvals. Tietto’s owner’s team is advancing construction of the process plant and associated infrastructure which remains on schedule as the Abujar Gold Project progresses towards first gold by the end of Q4,2022 and on track to become West Africa’s next gold mine.