Central Africa-focused Central Copper Resources has completed the acquisition of 100% of the shares of Titan Mining & Exploration which holds 78% of the Kayeye project, a licence area of 231 km² adjacent to Ivanhoe’s Kamoa-Kakula project in southern DRC. The completion of this acquisition transforms Central Copper Resources (CCR) into a company with significant additional exploration potential for new copper discovery through its 100% owned Lunga project in Zambia and 78% interest in Kayeye. CCR’s 65% interest in COMILU, also in the DRC, includes the pre-feasibility level Mbamba Kilenda project and 12 additional licences covering 80 km of prospective strike extent to the west of Mbamba Kilenda with significant base metal historical showings along this strike. As a result of this transaction, CCR will now advance all projects through their respective work programmes over the short term. These work programmes include: Following the successful completion of the acquisition of TME, and the opportunities it has presented, CCR has determined that seeking admission on AIM at this time would not be appropriate for the company and the new dimensions of the portfolio, and as such has decided to withdraw from the listing process. In light of this, CCR is currently finalising a short-term funding package which will enable the company to advance its projects, prior to an estimated mid-2022 stock exchange listing. To align with this strategy, Luke Knight has been appointed CEO with immediate effect while former CEO Kevin van Wouw will focus on the delivery and management of the combined company work programs as COO. READ: Central Copper Resources’ bigger plans in the DRC Knight will be based in Australia to lead the company through its next stages of financing and development while Van Wouw will be based in Africa. “We are very excited to have completed this major milestone with the acquisition of Titan Mining & Exploration, which has fundamentally changed the composition of our asset register towards  recommencing our exploration activities in 2022,” says Knight. “Consistent feedback during recent marketing has highlighted that CCR and its portfolio of projects are more suited to alternative exchanges that puts a higher value on the exploration potential of the company’s assets, and CCR’s ability to significantly add to the mineral inventory of those assets in the near term. READ: Kamoa-Kakula’s excellent performance “The wealth of exploration and technical expertise within the company will ensure that CCR returns to market at an appropriate time with both best-in-class exploration targets and the potential for near term production over its flagship Mbamba Kilenda project.”