Diamcor Mining has delivered approximately 3,103.40 carats of rough diamonds in January for its initial tender and sale of the New Year. These rough diamonds recovered from the processing of quarry material at the Company’s Krone Endora at Venetia Project will be tendered in Dubai in the coming weeks. The Company believes it has the potential to further increase processing volumes moving forward through additional refinements and optimization of the previously completed Phase 1 upgrades, and efforts continue to be advanced on the Phase 2 upgrades which are still targeted for completion by June 30, 2022. In addition to the efforts underway to increase processing volumes, the Company is targeting the start of exploration and bulk sampling exercises on certain surrounding areas of the Project prior to the end of 2022. Approximately 85% of the total surface area of the Project has yet to be explored, and further updates on these efforts will be announced as they are finalized. As has been announced by the Government of South Africa, many of the restrictions it had previously implemented to reduce the effects of COVID-19 have now begun to be eased. While the Company’s operations were fortunately not materially affected by the recent and now apparently diminishing fourth wave of COVID-19 in South Africa, the Company continues best practices to protect the health and well-being of management, employees, and contractors of the Company. “We are pleased with this first delivery of rough diamonds for tender and sale in the quarter as we enter into 2022,” stated Dean Taylor, Diamcor CEO. “It has been widely reported by mainstream financial media that supplies of rough diamonds are strained and majors such as De Beers have raised diamond prices by approximately 10% as we head into 2022. “We have long believed that the potential for this supply/demand scenario to play out was only a matter of time, and we look forward to the coming months and quarters as we continue our efforts to both increase our processing volumes and begin extended exploration efforts aimed at determining the potential of the extensive surrounding areas of the Project.”