Yes, by now we all know the details: “The investment will be used to accelerate the development of the Kabanga Nickel Project in Tanzania, the world’s largest development-ready nickel sulphide deposit.” According to McKinsey & Company the transition to a net-zero economy will be metal-intensive. As the move toward cleaner technologies progresses, the metals and mining sector will be put to the test: it will need to provide the vast quantities of raw materials required for the energy transition. HAVE YOU VOTED IN OUR POLL REGARDING INVESTMENT IN TANZANIA? Because metals and mining are a long lead-time, highly capital-intensive sector, price fly-ups and bottlenecks will be unavoidable as demand outstrips supply and price volatility creates uncertainty around the large up-front capital investments needed for production. This could mean that the energy transition is driving BHP’s investments in nickel. Nickel is currently enjoying strong support from being a lithium-ion battery enhancing metal. Its use reduces the need for cobalt and significantly reduces battery costs. Car manufacturers are currently scrambling to lock up supplies as Chinese battery firms make an aggressive approach to the market. Last year BHP signed a deal to supply Tesla with nickel from its west Australian mine as demand from the EV market finally starts to ramp up. A risk for Kabanga is its remote location in the northwest of Tanzania in immediate proximity to the bordesr with Burundi and Rwanda. This will more than likely stack the price and effort related to the transporting of ore for processing in a third country. To mitigate this BHP and Kabanga have stated they plan to use an environmentally less damaging hydrometallurgical refining process on site. They also plan to only transport refined product to world markets to improve economics and reduce their carbon footprint. READ MORE ARTICLES ABOUT BATTERY METALS BHP’s investment in a junior miner such as Kabanga steps away from its traditional approach and herald’s its belief that the market is currently under-served with product from stable locations across the globe (Australia, Chile, and Canada). In parallel, BHP has invested US$10 million into Lifezone to advance the roll-out of its patented hydrometallurgical technologies. Lifezone Hydromet is more cost-efficient than smelting, has a significantly lower environmental impact, and will ensure that finished Class 1 battery grade nickel, copper and cobalt will be produced in Tanzania. Chris Showalter, Kabanga Nickel CEO, said: “We are delighted to announce this partnership with BHP. It highlights the world-class nature of the Kabanga deposit and its importance in helping meet the crucial decarbonisation challenge facing the world today. “BHP is the ideal partner for Kabanga Nickel, bringing significant advantages and expertise that will enable us to move ahead with the project. BHP’s investment reflects the project’s strong ESG credentials and its role in improving environmental performance throughout the nickel value chain. “In addition, BHP’s funding support of Lifezone’s hydromet technology – the future of sustainable metals processing – will drive progress towards a greener world. Through development of Kabanga and Lifezone hydromet, Tanzania will have a growing role in the supply of the battery metals needed to move to a global low carbon economy.” • Kabanga is the largest development-ready nickel sulphide deposit in the world. Located in western Tanzania, it has contained in-situ nickel equivalent resources estimated at 1.86 Mt and an in-situ nickel equivalent grade of 3.44% • US$40 million investment from BHP, a world leading resources company, to accelerate development of the Kabanga Nickel Project to produce Class 1 battery-grade nickel, cobalt, and copper • Further US$10 million investment from BHP to progress Lifezone’s low-carbon hydrometallurgical processing technology which is more cost-efficient than smelting and has a significantly lower environmental impact • Future investment tranches in Kabanga Nickel have been agreed subject to certain conditions, including a second tranche of US$50 million and the right for BHP to make further investment subject to achieving certain agreed milestones • Full beneficiation of battery grade metals without smelting will be achieved in Tanzania. The Government of Tanzania has a 16% interest through local partnership entity, Tembo Nickel Corporation, Kabanga Nickel holds the balance.