One of the most topical issues in the mining industry in Africa is whether there is tangible progress in achieving effective transformation. Transformation can be defined as a “change process” that transforms institutions and systems into achieving employment equity, diversity and creating opportunities for previously disadvantaged peoples. The rise of various resource nationalism and indigenisation measures that have dominated the regulatory environment in southern Africa are testament to this need. Zambia, Zimbabwe, Tanzania, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Mozambique have varying policies, laws and regulations in place that attempt to re-align the mining industry with the aspirations of national interests. Transformation takes various forms and can include black economic empowerment measures, indigenisation, the use of tax or local-content measures to promote the maximisation of benefits from mining and the targeted promotion of artisanal and small-scale miners, among the many available measures. The varied resource nationalism initiatives undertaken by various African mineral-rich countries and the ensuing consequences have proved that transformation is a fragile and delicate process that can easily become undone for multiple reasons. In particular, most attempts have demonstrated that arbitrary transformative initiatives do not work and usually elicit significant resistance and damaging disinvestment. Secondly, the various efforts have revealed that over-dependence on integration into existing economic entities or taxation does not achieve the desired objective of sustainable or propagative transformation. Instead, it has become apparent that sustainable transformation also requires the intentional promotion, investment and capacitation of domestic artisanal, small and medium scale enterprises into competitive and sustainable enterprises. This approach widens access to more indigenous players and allows for the benefits of mining to filter back more effectively to domestic beneficiaries and systems. On the 21st of September 2021, the High Court of South Africa in Minerals Council of South Africa v Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy and Others [2021] 4 All SA 836 (GP) decided on an Application for Review brought by the Minerals Council of South Africa (Council) in respect of certain aspects of the 2018 Broad-based Black-Economic Empowerment Charter (Charter). At the heart of the matter was whether the Charter was a sui generis form of subordinate legislation or whether it merely constituted policy. The Court held that the 2018 Charter is not binding subordinate legislation but rather an instrument of policy. Whilst the determination outwardly seems to thin the enforceability of the Charter, it does not dampen the significant strides that have been achieved in bringing to life the aspirations of transformation in the South African mining industry. It is common cause that the Charter has achieved considerable milestones since its initial promulgation in 2004. The Charter has succeeded in sparking a holistic discussion on transformation deliverables and in entrenching transformation objectives in the maintenance of mining rights. This is a significant milestone reached by both the government of South Africa, the Mining Industry and its social partner stakeholders and serves meaningful lessons for countries that seek to embark on the journey of transformation. South Africa’s journey from the original 2004 Charter to the 2018 Charter has highlighted some critical inputs for attaining sustainable transformation in the mining sector. One gathers that the transformation process is an inclusive process as it relies on effective multi-stakeholder participation and support; it also requires the assistance of impartial mediation, which is essential in resolving stakeholders’ differences. In addition, it is also increasingly clear that transformation is an indispensable element in the stability and development of Africa’s mining industry. Several conflicts that emerge in the sector are due to environmental, social and governance issues (ESG). The most poignant message is that sustainable transformation is an inclusive process. The transformation journey in South Africa started with industry stakeholders, trade unions, communities and the government coming together to develop the objectives and deliverables of transformation. The participation of industry, labour and communities has been indispensable to coming up with a holistic framework that accommodates the varying needs and concerns of the industry’s stakeholders. The transformation process cannot occur without the input of those affected and those who stand to benefit from it. Therefore, governments intending to pursue holistic transformation must adopt an inclusive approach that allows interested parties to actively participate in developing the transformation rules, regulations or policies. This approach is grounded in the ever-present need to harmonise the rights and expectations of all stakeholders within the mining industry. Such an approach would also negate the proliferation of asymmetrical interests and expectations between governments, mining entities and social partners. Where asymmetrical interests arise, it leads to disruptive conflicts and contentions within the mining industry in which there are no winners. Participation also includes the active involvement of social and labour partners in the transformation process. There is an increase in ESG related conflicts in the mining industry, with social partners advocating for increased participation in the governance of the mining sector and increased responsiveness from governments concerning their oversight and enforcement mandates. It is perilous for mineral-rich governments to ignore the calls for a new approach towards participation and accountability in the mining sector. The poor management of adverse impacts of mining has gradually eroded social capital towards the sector. These conflicts have inevitably affected the development and expansion of the mining industry through fierce resistance towards new projects or increased conflicts between existing mines and surrounding communities. The development of transformation initiatives is an excellent opportunity to bring social partners to the table and develop a holistic framework of rights and duties that incorporates their buy-in and confidence in the governance system. In Minerals Council South Africa & 7 Ors v Minister of Mineral Resources [2017] HC 71147, the Court rightly held that social partners held a direct, substantial and material interest in the development of the Charter as they had rights ensuing from the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MRDP). While various points of departure have emerged between the stakeholders contributing to the Charter, the courts have emerged as a pivotal moderator in guiding the transformation process. With the assistance of the courts, the parties have been able to prune the transformation framework and purposively guide participation, scope and implementation modalities. Differences are inevitable and require an independent third party who can guarantee enforcement of determinations arising from conflict resolution and one who has a vested interest and mandate to balance national, social and commercial interests whilst also maintaining the rule of law. Effective mediation is a vital and indispensable part of achieving sustainable transformation. The balancing of interests between all the industry stakeholders is as necessary as the objective of transformation itself because the fragility of transformation lies in the fact that it requires the cooperation, support, and agreeableness of all stakeholders to achieve and maintain the objectives of transformation. It is important to note that even though the Charter is not considered binding subsidiary legislation, the import of the Charter is fully entrenched in the processes of acquiring mining rights. This statutory position ensures a mandated discussion of integral social and economic rights in the administration and acquisition of mining rights. Section 21 (1). (h) of the MRDP stipulates that the Minister may only grant a mining right if the granting of such right will further social and economic advancement of historically disadvantaged persons [section 2(d) and (f)] and in accordance with the Charter as well as in consideration of the prescribed Social and Labour Plans. The import of these provisions is to secure the enforcement of transformation measures within the mining industry in South Africa. The ground has been set, and the eventual success of implementing transformation measures is now a consequence of the commitment of investors to the obligations they reduce to writing and the ability of the government to enforce and monitor the performance of agreed objectives. Transformation in the mining industry has an essential contribution to the attainment of broad-based development in Africa. It is also a vital ingredient to establishing sustainable beneficiation value chains within the continent. Transformation needs to occur in the mining sector in Africa, and its objectives can be achieved to the mutual benefit of all stakeholders if careful consideration is applied in the development of the transformation framework. The lessons afforded by South Africa provide vital building blocks in developing sustainable transformation. While the country is still on its journey, it offers essential pointers for critical transformation inputs.