Orion Minerals has advised that initial drilling assays from the maiden drilling program at the Okiep Copper Project (OCP) in South Africa, have delivered very positive results, confirming the presence of shallow high-grade copper mineralisation and demonstrating the potential for additional high-grade mineralised lenses at depth. Orion’s Managing Director and CEO, Errol Smart, commented: “We are thrilled with the first assays received from our ongoing maiden drilling program at Okiep. The results we’ve received to date have confirmed the historical drill results for high-grade sulphide copper mineralisation near-surface and more importantly, confirming our geological hypothesis for a model for intrusive bodies arranged in en-echelon side-stepping lenses. “Historical drilling focussed on drilling down-dip projections, without adequately testing the probable sidestepping of mineralised lenses as was encountered at the 38 million tonne Carolusberg Deeps mine, which sits along strike from and on the same structure as Okiep. “This potential for offset, high-grade lenses, that continue down dip below the extensive, shallow historical mining on the 5 km strike Carolusberg line, presents a very exciting exploration opportunity. Drill testing this down dip position has been elevated to a high priority focus for 2022, alongside the testing of EM targets identified through our recent SkyTemTM survey. “Our engineering and permitting teams are also making good progress on the early mining project we announced on 3 May 2021 and we anticipate being able to provide market updates on this work shortly.” OCP drilling program The exploration drilling program at the OCP is designed to test and expand mineralisation intersected in historical drilling. Drilling is currently focussed on the Carolusberg – Koperberg line of intrusives. The Carolusberg Complex was the biggest contributor to historical mining in the Okiep Copper District delivering 38 Mt grading 1.54% Cu out of the reported total of 105 Mt mined over the past 100 years. Historical mine records show that Carolusberg Deeps contributed 16 Mt at a head grade of 2.05% Cu. Orion is currently exploring prospects with known copper mineralisation along strike of Carolusberg, applying an exploration model derived from structural interpretation of Carolusberg Mine mineralisation. The current drilling program also includes twin and infill drilling to verify historical drilling results and to allow future resource estimation. To date, 1,900 m of the 3,500 m planned diamond drilling program has been completed, representing 16 of the 26 planned holes. Assay results from 39 samples have been received. Further drill holes are currently being logged and sampled by Orion’s geological team, prior to dispatch to ALS Laboratory in Johannesburg. READ MORE ARTICLES ABOUT ORION MINERALS