Two weeks ago, I attended the North West Provincial Mining Investment Conference in Rustenburg. Organised by the Department of Mineral Resources and Energy, the conference highlighted the unique minerals and mining offerings of the province and shared information on the commodities attracting the most exploration and development funding. Delegates were also given an opportunity to deliberate on the diverse investment opportunities in the mining industry, of which there is plenty in the North West. The conference was attended by various stakeholders in the mining industry, including government, captains of the mining industry and potential investors. However, while the discussions were going on at the conference, it was a side show that made me realise that not all stakeholders are given an equal opportunity at such forums. During the conference, disgruntled community members mobilised and attempted to disrupt proceedings. Their protest was non-violent and all they wanted was an audience with Minister Gwede Mantashe to voice their concerns. Kudos to the minister for engaging with the protesters and restoring calm. However, this brought to light that communities still feel marginalised when it comes to making decisions that ultimately affect them, before, during and long after mining operations have ceased. Read: How can the achieving of effective transformation be measured? Speaking during a panel discussion titled Social Cohesion: Assessing Impact and Achieving Sustainable Mining Communities in the North West, Thayang Godfrey Mocwane, CEO of New Venture Mining, stated, “Mining is disruptive to communities hence social cohesion needs to address this disruption and how mining companies and communities can live in harmony in a developmental manner.” Another panellist, Alex Khumalo, Head: Social Development, Minerals Council of South Africa added, “There needs to be an integrated approach to building sustainable mining communities and mining companies need to honour their communities. Communities are fluid so constant engagement is imperative.” There can be little doubt that mining plays a key role in addressing unemployment and is a catalyst for socio-economic development in mining communities. However, government and mining companies in particularly need to meaningfully engage with communities on an ongoing basis to ensure that they no longer feel marginalised. Only then will social cohesion be achieved.