In May 2021, Nolitha was appointed as the Minerals Council South Africa’s first female president in the organisation’s 131-year history. Commenting on the appointment, Roger Baxter, CEO of the Minerals Council said, “It is a watershed occasion to have our first woman president and is testament to Nolitha’s fortitude and leadership capability. I am certain that she will leave an indelible mark on the industry and a material leadership contribution in the years ahead.” Corporate activist and businesswoman Nolitha has a passion for leadership development, especially for women in the workplace. In her many roles in South Africa’s mining sector over the past few years, she has become a respected authority on transformation and empowerment in South Africa. Having held several senior management and board positions at a number of blue-chip companies in the oil and gas, petrochemicals, financial services and retail sectors throughout her career, Nolitha has more recently spent a number of years in the mining sector, where she currently serves as the chairperson of diversified mining company Anglo American South Africa’s management board. She also serves as chairperson of the Minerals Council’s Women in Mining Leadership Forum, which is focused on attracting even more women to the industry. The stretch targets are to ensure that the mining industry at least doubles the percentage of women in mining by 2025 and ultimately works towards 30% to 40% women representation across the industry and 50% in management over the next decade. Nolitha believes the opportunities to accelerate the work of the Women in Mining Leadership Forum include the piloting of remote working models and technology; a push to implement technology with potential to benefit and attract women; and a mindset shift which offers an opportunity to challenge the status quo, including on gender diversity. As a corporate activist for economic and socio-economic change for women in particular, Nolitha says it’s difficult to ignore the fact that women are still unable to achieve socioeconomic empowerment. CLICK HERE to find out who our #1 mining leader is CLICK HERE to find out who our #2 mining leader is CLICK HERE to find out who our #3 mining leader is According to her, there are moral and regulatory imperatives to advancing women in mining. More importantly, she avers that no industry can continue to thrive if it only uses half of its population. She believes that when people with different skills and abilities can come together to make a positive contribution, then it will be the best outcome for the mining industry and South Africa’s economy. In terms of diversity and inclusion, Fakude says this should not solely focus on representation but should also be about creating visible and felt upliftment of women and marginalised groups in the workplace and giving them the opportunity to be meaningful participants in the economy. In addition, Nolitha has also authored the book, Boardroom Dancing. The book tells the story of her corporate life – from her childhood as a shopkeeper’s daughter in the Eastern Cape, to her very senior positions at some major blue-chip companies. CLICK HERE to find out who our #4 mining leader is The book serves as inspiration for women looking for role models in their journey through the corporate world. In her new role, Nolitha is certain to further champion the cause for transformation, empowerment, equality, diversity and inclusion in South Africa’s mining sector.