Mark is the epitome of what Mining Elites in Africa stands for – making a difference! Yes, he is running a very successful mining operation in Namibia – the Otjikoto gold mine – but his contributions to economic upliftment across the country is what is truly inspiring. Mark’s efforts cover multiple endeavours in the fields of nature conservation, education, agriculture, and even greater economic contributions. Under Mark’s leadership, he successfully delivered the Rhino Gold Bar initiative – which was an exceptional project and well received by market (and a winner in last year’s Elites publication). While the efforts of this project are essentially complete, B2Gold is also planning to use a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the bars to mint a new series of limited rhino bars and medallions, helping the Rhino Gold Bar initiative to become self-sufficient and sustainable. Self-sufficient being the key – it is good to see work being done for the project to develop its own legs. Let’s however look at some of the other work Mark has been instrumental in achieving. The mine’s Little Shop of Physics (LSOP) is one example. LSOP is a project – first created by some passionate people at Colorado University – designed to help students and teachers overcome the challenges of a) teaching maths and physics and b) learning maths and physics in a fun environment. Not only is this project designed to teach children, but also to teach teachers – which again is the art of sustainable practice. It is efforts like this that drive Mark daily and signify how to really give back to the community. With a supporting team, Mark has also established significant agriculture initiatives, which for the purpose of this nomination can be outlined as efforts aimed at growing maize and wheat in significant quantities to reduce Namibia’s importing consumption of the products. CLICK HERE to find out who our #1 mining leader is CLICK HERE to find out who our #2 mining leader is CLICK HERE to find out who our #3 mining leader is CLICK HERE to find out who our #4 mining leader is CLICK HERE to find out who our #5 mining leader is Another of Mark’s visions is outlined in B2Gold Namibia’s integrated mine closure solution, known as the Greater Waterberg Partnership Park. This project’s concept hinges on joining land owned by various entities (including the Otjikoto nature reserve), private farmers, NGOs, communal farmland, communal conservancies, and the existing Waterberg Plateau Park under a joint ownership scheme. Aggregating and protecting land under this public-private partnership would create a variety of employment opportunities and also provide alternative revenue options for current landowners, attracting several economic activities linked to nature-based tourism. Last but by no means least, Mark has also acquired an agriculture project in Etunda in the western Omusati Region of Namibia. This project is aimed at feeding the nearby Nakayale Academy for Orphans and Marginalised Children – a school and orphanage for neglected, homeless children who have now been given a chance to obtain an education and become contributing adults within Namibian society. The plan further is to sell produce to the public and in doing so generate income to ensure the agricultural project becomes fully sustainable and better able to financially support the Academy. This man is a true inspiration to the mining sector at large regarding what can be done to give back most effectively.