Crushing contractor B&E International has invested in Metso’s latest mobile screening solutions from Pilot Crushtec, in advance of what is hoped to be a better year for road-building and other construction in 2022. Ken Basson, director plant and engineering at B&E International, says the new acquisitions will expand the company’s crushing fleet in anticipation of more work, and will also optimise the cost of aggregate production. The equipment order, which is to be supplied in Q1 2022, comprises a Lokotrack LT220D mobile crushing and screening plant and a Lokotrack LT120 mobile jaw crushing plant. “Over the years we have built up an extensive fleet of Metso equipment, with close to 95% of our crushing units this brand,” says Basson. “In our target markets, we have found these product line configurations are optimal for servicing our customers’ needs.” He notes that B&E International’s technical and operator teams have gained extensive experience in using Metso equipment, which ensures smooth operations all round. A vital consideration in the purchase decision is the high level of service and support the company receives from local Metso distributor, Pilot Crushtec. “With their extensive spare parts supply inventory on hand, Pilot Crushtec reacts rapidly when we need them,” he says. “In our industry, this ability is paramount to achieving sustainable profitability – both for ourselves and our customers.” The Metso LT220D, which boasts an innovative combination of high-performance cone crusher and screen on the same chassis, is an exciting addition to the B&E International fleet. “B&E is already operating Metso’s LT330D – the ‘big brother’ of the LT220D – and the performance results from this unit have been exemplary in all respects,” Basson says. “The new unit is part of our replacement of older models in the LT1100 range, bringing a number of modern benefits.” For instance, the Metso LT220D is about 5 t lighter than its predecessor, and comes fitted with a GP220 cone crusher combined with a Metso ST4.8 screen. It delivers more crushing power, and has more stroke options available. This is key to optimising both the quality and capacity of production. “When combined with a Metso jaw crusher, the LT220D can produce up to three calibrated end‑products by using a two‑stage crushing circuit,” says Basson. “Crushing reduction ratios achieved by this crusher are also further optimised as a result of the increased number of crushing cavities available.” With the rising cost of fuel, he also emphasises the enhanced fuel consumption as a factor in B&E International’s selection, with the Metso LT220D’s crusher being able to use efficient direct‑drive power transmission from the C13 Caterpillar engine onboard. The Metso LT120 is the latest and most advanced of Metso’s track-mounted jaw crusher plants, with its 1200 mm by 870 mm feed opening providing sufficient capacity for tough applications. The hydraulic drive ensures reliable operation and enables crusher direction to be changed in case of blockage. Basson highlights that the lead time for the supply of the new units was also important, as the economic recovery in regions like Europe and North America was making it difficult for some OEMs to deliver orders within reasonable timeframes. “We are making sure that we are well positioned for new work, as the construction and road-building sector seems be gradually more buoyant,” he says. “There are high hopes for an upswing in in this year and the sector can rely on us to perform to our usual standard.”