For 30 years, Lemaitre has always been a brand committed to keeping those who build South Africa safe. Recently, it announced the addition of new styles to its range of safety shoes, designed to offer more support, comfort and performance in the toughest mining environments. The new additions are: Raptor range The Raptor range is synonymous with torsion control and keeping one sure-footed in environments where uneven terrain is prevalent. The company has expanded its offering in this range with the Osprey Hiker and the Falcon shoe and boot. The Osprey Hiker has a full grain genuine leather upper for enhanced comfort and durability. The Falcon shoe and boot also made with a genuine leather upper, with TPU inserts in the arch of the foot with enhanced ladder grip design. Their Dual Density PU sole unit and TPU inserts allow for an aggressive grip and torsion control. Parabolic range The Parabolic range comes with a durable polyurethane midsole and is perfect for workers who need extra support when spending a lot of time on their feet. The Concorde shoe and boot are our latest’s offerings in this range. With an S3 rating, they also come standard with an anti-penetration midsole (APT) to prevent sharp objects from penetrating the boot. Maxeco range The Maxeco range has built-in arch support and is designed for all-around safety. The redesigned Maximus provides all-around safety with the addition of a memory foam insole and reflective strip. It has a lightweight sole unit, wider fit and improved ergonomics. The square cleat design of the shoe improves the slip resistance rating and provides better stability and reduced shock impact. APOLLO RANGE The Apollo range with SRC slip-resistance rating offers maximum slip-resistance and is suited for environments where slip potential is a high risk. The two new styles added in this range are the Clog and the Ben. While the Clog has been designed to provide superior slip-resistance to those working in kitchens and hospitals, the Ben incorporates the benefits of the Apollo sole as well as no metal or hard plastics on the upper which minimises the risk of scratching metal and other smooth surfaces. INYATI RANGE New to the Lemaitre range is the Inyati range which offers high heat resistance, cut and abrasion resistance and SRC rated slip resistance and has an injected PU/Rubber sole which provides all-round safety and protection in hazardous working environments. The two new styles to this range are the Dodge and the Urban. The Dodge has a stylish leather upper and comes with a TPU support system on the outside counter for reinforced support. The Urban boot is S3 rated and boasts a genuine duo-tone leather upper with additional padding on the collar and tongue for enhanced comfort. An anti-penetration insole board comes standard with this style. Lemaitre’s range of products offers a variety of features and benefits for all-round protection, comfort and performance.