Statement by the Loucas Pouroulis, Executive Chairman, regarding results of the Tharisa AGM and dividend conversion rates and timetable. The past financial year was a watershed year for us, in many respects. We moved outside of our Tharisa Mine and South African country borders by commencing production at Salene Chrome Zimbabwe, while completing an implementation study on our world class Karo Platinum project, in which Tharisa owns 26.8%. In South Africa, we have grown both PGM and chrome production at the Tharisa Mine, and this trajectory has continued into Q1 FY2022, as evidenced by our quarterly report released in early January 2022. The Vulcan Plant, Tharisa’s fine chrome beneficiation plant, is well into commissioning and the live tailings from both the Voyager and Genesis Plants are being fed into this new plant, designed in-house and 90% procured locally in South Africa. From a financial perspective, 2021 was also a major success. We increased our dividend by almost 160%, our earnings per share increased by 131% and our EBITDA almost doubled. On 15 February 2022 Tharisa concluded a landmark BEE transaction, that saw Tharisa acquire 26% of Tharisa Minerals and our BEE partners becoming shareholders at the listed company level. The simplification of the corporate structure ensures that our BEE shareholders participate in regular dividend flows consistent with the Company’s shareholders, with a stated dividend policy of distributing at least 15% of consolidated net profit after tax, while also benefiting from the Company’s growth strategy, broadening their exposure to the growth profile beyond the Tharisa Mine. This transaction simplifies our corporate structure and is also value accretive to the Company as it eliminates non-controlling interests and consolidates cash generation from the Tharisa Mine. We have seen an intense focus on the impacts of climate change and are acutely aware of our accountability in reducing our carbon footprint. We remain consciously aware of the mining industry being a critical contributor to the global economy, as well as to the delivery of critical metals for the global energy transition. It is therefore essential for us to minimise the environmental impact of our activities. As such, we have committed to reducing our carbon emissions by 30% by 2030, with a clear roadmap to being net carbon neutral by 2050. We have commenced this roadmap with the signing this past month of a comprehensive MOU with world leaders in renewable energy to construct 40 MW of renewable solar power at the Tharisa Mine. As a company playing a critical role in the energy transition through the metals, we mine, Tharisa must embrace the future through the application of innovation and technology to support global environmental protection. Our commitment to improving the lives of those we employ and the communities within which we operate, combined with the returns we deliver for all our stakeholders, can only be achieved with sustainability at the core of Tharisa’s strategy. Underpinning the pillars of our growth strategy is our commitment to enriching the lives of all our stakeholders, and so I am excited about the prospects and successful development of the Tharisa growth strategy. My sincere gratitude goes out to the Tharisa team, the lifeblood of our organisation. The alignment of purpose, and the delivery on commitments in a safe and sustainable manner has allowed us to continue to make a positive impact. These are exciting times and the global objective to decarbonise the planet through new processes and technologies allows Tharisa to play an even greater role in creating the resources company of the future.