South Africa is aiming to attract 5% of global exploration expenditure by 2025. For many, this may seem like a tall order but MOSA MABUZA, CEO of the Council for Geoscience (CGS), believes that his organisation can help make this vision become a reality. GERARD PETER reports. The CGS is the custodian of all geoscience data and knowledge in South Africa, both on and offshore. Exploration carried out by mining companies is the percussor to the work that is done by the CGS. The work that it carries out is the precursor to exploration carried out by mining companies. The organisation was established in accordance with the Geoscience Act, Act No. 100 of 1993 and reports to the Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy (DMRE). It receives funding for its work from the national fiscus. Mabuza and his team develop programmes and motivate for the areas that the CGS would like to map out and collect data. When it comes to exploration, Mabuza explains that the CGS invests in precompetitive geological information. “The data that we collect is of immense value to mining companies. There is a direct correlation between gathering this information and the appetite for the international investment community to invest in exploration in our country,” he adds. One of the mandates of the CGS is to accurately map out the country – both on and off-shore.  something that Mabuza says his predecessors have done exceptionally well. “My predecessors have done a fantastic job in laying the foundation for geological mapping of the country. Onshore, the entire country is mapped at a scale of 1:250 000 and in the past, this has led to many discoveries of gold, platinum, manganese etc. “All of those have been found on the basis of access to geological information generated by the CGS that the private sector would take and permute in a particular way and would then do a detailed geology research in a particular area of interest and ultimately, major discoveries were made.” Finer mapping already bearing fruit However, Mabuza points out that the country’s major resource discoveries have already been made using a mapping scale of 1:250 000; this is not only unique to South Africa but throughout the world. As such, many international organisations similar to CGS are now mapping on finer scale, 1: 50 000. This has already bore fruit in Australia and Canada and currently these two countries attract about 35% of the global exploration budget which Mabuza says translates to an average of US$ 10 billion on an annual basis. South Africa is lagging when it comes to mapping on this scale. In fact, when Mabuza took over the reins at the CGS in 2016, only 3% of the country had been mapped on that scale. Together with his team, Mabuza put together a strategic reorientation of CGS and impressed on the government the importance of South Africa investing in augmenting the coverage of the country, at least onshore initially, at that sort of scale. “We made an argument that it is very important that we support exploration activities as the lifeblood of mining and it is pleasing to note that government is supporting this value proposition.” To date, 10% of the country has been geologically mapped at a scale of 1:50 000. In doing so, CGS is unlocking further potential in the country. For example, the organisation recently discovered an extension to the Wits Basin where gold has been traditionally mined in the country. “We had a fairly good understanding of the mineralising system in this area and have always known that it extends into the Mpumalanga area but didn’t quite know the extent of it. Now, looking at historical data along with new information, we are unravelling that there is further gold potential in the Wits Basin. This is good news as gold still makes up a large share of the global exploration budget and we will make that information available at the right time,” Mabuza explains. Furthermore, in the Northern Cape, CGS geologists are currently mapping a large rock formation that extends into neighbouring Namibia. They have already mapped 67% of the area and have confirmed the presence of lithium in the rock formation. Mabuza explains that when this information was made public, the DMRE started to receive a number of applications from the private sector to explore the area. Mabuza adds that the technological advancements over the past two decades have allowed for greater exploration opportunities. “Twenty years ago, we were mapping on a much lower resolution. Now, we’re mapping on a much higher resolution. The higher resolution means that we’re able to uncover and characterise more things, like important natural resources. “Also, presently, we have access to more innovative techniques and technologies. This includes various satellite imagery and aerial monitoring equipment. The incorporation of these technologies means we can map the earth like never before. Continuous human evolution means we need to constantly map the earth and find new and improved ways for sustainable development.” Creating a win-win for all parties Access to data is key for the success of any exploration activity. To that end, in July last year, the CGS created a data portal that interested parties can easily access. Most of the information is freely available while some of it is sold at a nominal fee. The portal not only provides the data, but it also allows geologists and geoscientists to extract and process the data in whichever way they want. At the same time, Mabuza points out that the CGS also relies on information from exploration companies, something that is not always easy to come by. “In South Africa, we had a unique arrangement where the results of geological surveys were held exclusively by those who collected it. This is unlike most parts of the world where it is a requirement for such data to be submitted to the CGS equivalents.” Now, government has put in place regulations that stipulates that mining companies submit their geological surveys to the CGS. As this is often commercially sensitive data, Mabuza explains that the organisation keeps this information confidential during the five-year tenure of a prospector’s licence and only once this licence has lapsed, will CGS make this data public. As stated earlier, it is a mammoth undertaking to attract 5% of global exploration expenditure by 2025. However, Mabuza believes that if the data collected by the CGS can lead to a major discovery within the next 18 months, this will open up the door for further exploration investment. “Many say that mining is a sunset industry but this is nothing further from the truth. The work that that the CGS is doing is proving that we are only scratching the surface of our mineral resource potential. We know which areas have high potential and we are optimising the resources that we have. Success breeds success and I am confident that a major discovery will result in a flood of investment coming into the country,” Mabuza concludes.