AngloGold Ashanti has announced that Chief Financial Officer, Christine Ramon, has elected to take early retirement from her current role at the end of June of this year, after more than seven years with the company. Ramon was appointed CFO and Executive Director of AngloGold Ashanti in October 2014 and held the position of interim CFO from 1 September 2020 to 31 August 2021. During her time with the Company, she also served as a director of the World Gold Council and the International Council on Mining and Metals. During her tenure, marked by sharp debt reduction, improved liquidity and careful allocation of capital, Ramon played a vital role in improving the health of AngloGold Ashanti’s balance sheet. Her careful stewardship of the company as interim CEO, during the worst of the COVID-19 pandemic and during a period of significant loss for her family, demonstrated her steadfastness and commitment to AngloGold Ashanti’s values and its people. “On behalf of the board, I would like to express our deep gratitude to Christine for her significant contribution to AngloGold Ashanti over more than seven years. “Christine has had a long and successful tenure as CFO and leaves behind a strong balance sheet and a hard-earned tradition of disciplined capital allocation. “She also led this company as interim CEO through a challenging operating environment and during an exceptionally difficult time for her personally, showing courage, commitment and resilience that will remain a legacy of her tenure. “We wish her every happiness as she spends time with her family, and every success in the years ahead,” said AngloGold Ashanti Chairperson, Maria Ramos. “We bid farewell to Christine with a deep sense of gratitude for her immense contribution to our company,” said CEO Alberto Calderon. “We wish her happiness and a peaceful time with her family after an incredibly difficult period.” “I am thankful and proud of my work and achievements at AngloGold Ashanti, and of the exceptional team I’ve worked alongside during that time,” said Ramon. “This has been a difficult decision for me but given that I tragically lost my husband to COVID-19 last year, I now need to devote more time in the near term to my two children. I would like to thank Alberto, the AngloGold Ashanti team and the Board, and wish them every success in the future.”