Drilling specialist Master Drilling, based in the small West Rand town of Fochville, is one of a select group of South African companies that can claim to be true global leaders in their chosen fields. The man who has taken the company from its small beginnings to its current prominence is its CEO Danie Pretorius, one of the best-liked and most respected figures in the mining industry, certainly in South Africa. Master Drilling operates internationally in over 20 countries – with a particularly strong presence in the Americas – and is widely recognised as one of the most innovative companies serving the mining sector. At the heart of its offering is its raiseboring capability and it currently operates 148 raiseboring machines, one of the biggest fleets of its type in the world. After working for both the Western Deep Levels gold mine and Murray & Roberts RUC at the start of his career, Danie founded Master Drilling in 1986. His contacts and competence soon brought in work and by the early 1990s the company was moving across the border, first with a contract at the Shabanie mine in Zimbabwe in 1992 and then a contract in 1993 at the El Indio mine in Chile in South America. In 2000 the company put into operation its first self-designed, low profile raisebore and blind-hole machine and in 2006 it acquired Drillcorp Africa, giving it a strong foothold in the exploration drilling market. Another major milestone occurred in 2012 when it listed on the JSE. The company has set several records along the way. For example, in 2012 it notched up a directional drill record at a Lonmin mine, drilling a pilot hole for raiseboring to a depth of over 1 km. More recently, in 2020, it bettered this record with the successful completion of a 1 382 m-deep pilot hole at Northam Platinum’s Zondereinde mine. In executing the Northam project, Master Drilling used groundbreaking oil well directional drilling technology and combined this with the RD8, a machine which it both designed and manufactured. The RD8 monitors a number of operational metrics and takes corrective actions automatically, providing the accuracy required. The Zondereinde contract exemplifies one of the core values of Master Drilling – its willingness to innovate and lead the market rather than follow it, principles that Danie has held firm to throughout his long career. This willingness to push the envelope can also be seen in two potentially revolutionary steps forward the company has taken in recent years – the development of a Mobile Tunnel Borer (MTB) for use in mining and a mechanised Shaft Boring System (SBS) that is designed to replace traditional shaft-sinking methods. CLICK HERE to find out who our #1 mining leader is The ability of the MTB has already been demonstrated at the Eland Platinum mine in South Africa. When Danie started Master Drilling in the mid-80s, the interconnected digital world was still largely in the future. The company has, however, adapted to the ever-changing digital landscape, with its first automated machines going live in 2013 and, more recently, a remote drilling feature for its rigs being pioneered at a deep-level South African gold mine. Emphasising it technological credentials, the company has recently made investments in both AVA Solutions, a specialist in data driven mining fleet management solutions, and the A&R Group, whose equipment and systems track the movement of more than 50 000 people and machines underground in South Africa daily. “Technological innovation is a key priority for Master Drilling as we continue to support our clients to move down the cost curve, optimise their operations and increase safety,” says Danie.