Johan Ferreira has been at the helm of Khoemacau Copper Mining since May 2017. Through his leadership and passion he has been instrumental in securing US$650 million to fund the Khoemacau Starter Project while working closely with government, local leadership, the community and his leadership team, the project team and construction and mine operating partners. Under his leadership and guidance, Johan has successfully delivered Khoemacau – a Greenfields large-scale, underground, fully mechanised mine in Botswana – on time and within budget during the peak of COVID-19. Situated about 70 km south-west of Maun in the northern region of Botswana, the 100% privately owned Khoemacau copper project is situated on the Kalahari Copperbelt and forms part of a 4 040 km² land package that Khoemacau Copper Mining owns. Delivering as mentioned, a US$410 million world-class, significantly sized underground mining operation during the height of COVID-19 is no easy feat, but Khoemacau is proof that it can be done. A lack of underground mechanised mining skills in the area and no decent access road for the first nine months of project development and equipment supply challenges associated with the pandemic posed no challenge too big for Johan and his project. Not only did Khoemacau achieve first production as per its original timeframe (established before the pandemic) in June 2021, it also kept to its original budget and closed out the project within 2% of its original financial model. “To safely execute the project, construct and bring into production a world-class mine, in two and a half years since we started construction, considering the impact and typical delays caused by COVID-19, is an achievement we are particularly proud of,” Johan has proudly stated. CLICK HERE to find out who our #1 mining leader is CLICK HERE to find out who our #2 mining leader is CLICK HERE to find out who our #3 mining leader is The Khoemacau mine currently comprises the high grade Zone 5 underground mine and associated surface infrastructure, as well as the metallurgically and volumetrically upgraded Boseto processing facility – referred to as the ‘Starter Project’ which at steady-state production will have a nameplate throughput of 3.65 Mtpa – to produce +60 000 tpa copper and +2 Mozpa silver, with both payable metals in concentrate at a cash cost of about US$1.30/lb and an AISC of about $1.75/lb (net of silver credits at consensus pricing). Based on a resource of 92 Mt, delivering these volumes equates to a long operating lifespan in excess of 20 years. And while getting this project, on this scale, off the ground during COVID-19 peak periods, Johan’s goals are far greater as he implements the necessary work to start expansion work on the mine. Considering the Khoemacau land package is substantial and known exploration work has revealed additional copper and silver resources, Johan’s mid-term plan aims to expand production to over 130 000 tpa of copper and 5 Mozpa of silver metal in concentrate and in the longer term to +150 000 tpa of copper and +6 Mozpa of silver metal by developing further resources, with grades in excess of 2% copper. “There is also potential to expand mining at Zone 5 to 4.5 Mtpa ROM – which we are already confident can be achieved considering the resource continues at depth below 1 200 m,” Ferreira confirms.