RELATED:B2Gold reaches agreement in principle on Menankoto permitB2Gold begins arbitration against the Republic of Mali In December 2021, B2Gold and the Government of Mali reached an agreement in principle relating to the dispute on the Menankoto Permit, where the Government of Mali agreed that it would grant a new exploration permit covering the same perimeter as the Menankoto Permit to a new Malian subsidiary of B2Gold, and B2Gold would withdraw the international arbitration proceedings that its Malian subsidiary commenced against the Republic of Mali. B2Gold’s Malian subsidiary has now received the new Menankoto Permit, issued by the Government of Mali in compliance with the procedures and requirements set out under the Malian 2019 Mining Code, which provides for an initial term of three years and renewable for 2 additional three-year periods. B2Gold’s Malian subsidiary has now withdrawn the international arbitration proceedings against the Republic of Mali. With the receipt of the Menankoto Permit, exploration on the Menankoto Permit is expected to commence by February 15, 2022, initially with two drill rigs operating, which will build on the $27 million that the Company has spent to date on Menankoto Permit, with additional drill rigs to be deployed shortly thereafter. The Company plans to continue focusing on upgrading and expanding the existing saprolite Mineral Resource estimate of 21.6 Mt at 1.11 g/t for 770,000 oz for the Anaconda area. An updated Mineral Resource estimate based on the results from the extensive 2020 and 2021 infill and exploration drill program is expected in the first quarter of 2022 and will feed into engineering studies currently underway. This updated Mineral Resource estimate will also include an initial Mineral Resource estimate for the sulphide material below the saprolite. Additionally, the Company has completed environmental and social studies to support permitting efforts. In 2022, the Company will continue drilling to infill and extend the saprolite resource area and to follow up on the sulphide mineralization at the Anaconda area, including the Mamba, Adder, and several other targets below the saprolite mineralization. The good grade and width combinations at the Anaconda area continue to provide a strong indication of the potential for Fekola-style south plunging bodies of sulphide mineralization, which remains open down plunge. The potential to truck material from the nearby Anaconda area in late 2022 is currently being developed and is not included in Fekola’s production guidance. The Fekola Mine has not included the Mineral Resources from the Anaconda area in the current Fekola LOM plan. Preliminary planning by the Company has demonstrated that a pit situated on the Anaconda area could provide saprolite material to be trucked to and fed into the Fekola mill commencing in late 2022, increasing the ore processed and annual gold production from the Fekola mill, subject to obtaining all necessary permits and completion of a final mine plan, with the potential to add an average of approximately 80,000 to 100,000 oz per year to Fekola’s annual gold production. In 2022, a total of $33 million has been budgeted to facilitate Phase 1 saprolite mining at the Anaconda area. The Company plans on commencing a Phase II study when the updated Mineral Resource estimate on the sulphide material becomes available and based on 2022 exploration drilling results  to review the project economics of trucking sulphide material to the Fekola mill as compared to constructing another stand-alone mill near the Anaconda area. This additional feed from the Anaconda area to the Fekola Mine has the potential to provide immediate value to B2Gold and the State of Mali, B2Gold’s 20% partner at the Fekola Mine, and communities near the project, and create significant long-term benefits for the Government of Mali as well as employment opportunities and value generation for the communities located both near the Menankoto deposit, regionally and nationally. Since the Company commenced its investment in Mali, B2Gold has enjoyed a positive and mutually beneficial relationship with the Government of Mali. Most recently, B2Gold partnered with the Government of Mali to assist the people of Mali facing challenges created by the COVID-19 pandemic, as well as its impact on the mining sector. B2Gold continues to explore additional ways in which it might help both B2Gold’s stakeholders and the Government deal with the ongoing impact of the pandemic. Initial open pit mining operations at the Cardinal Zone have commenced and will continue to ramp up. To December 31, 2021, 164,340 tonnes at an average grade of 1.66 g/t have been mined at the Cardinal Zone. The oxide mineralization within the updated Indicated Mineral Resource for the Cardinal Zone, which is currently in production, is expected to be a low-cost source of mill feed to the Fekola Mine, with approximately 50,000 oz budgeted to be produced from the Cardinal Zone in 2022, and has the potential to add an average of approximately 60,000 oz per year from the sulphide mineralization over the next 6 to 8 years to Fekola’s annual gold production. In 2021, B2Gold continued exploration of the Cardinal Zone as part of its $27 million exploration program in Mali. Concurrent drilling programs by the Fekola exploration and mine geology teams completed more than 50,000 metres of RC and diamond drilling towards the conversion of Inferred Mineral Resources to the Indicated category, for input to mine planning and the expansion of the known resource area, which remains open at depth. The updated Mineral Resource estimate upgraded 430,000 oz from Inferred to an Indicated category, which provides a more robust model for mine planning, while at the same time increasing the total Inferred Mineral Resource estimate to 740,000 oz. The Cardinal Zone comprises multiple, sub-parallel, west-dipping shear zones with an average width of approximately 10 metres for the main Cardinal zone. The 2021 exploration program has shown that the Cardinal/FMZ system persists at depth, with holes such as FKD_610 returning excellent grade-width intersections below the reported resource and indicating further potential, down dip of recent drilling. Composites are reported above 0.6 g/t gold cut-off, including intervals, above 1 g/t gold. Metallurgical test work completed at SGS Lakefield confirmed the metallurgical response is aligned with previous test work and plant results confirming that the Cardinal zone mineralization is amenable to the Fekola plant operating conditions. The 2022 Cardinal Zone exploration campaign will focus on expanding the known resource down dip and down plunge to the north, where the Cardinal/FMZ system intersects the Fekola Mine trend. In 2022, approximately $27 million is budgeted to be spent on exploration in Mali, focusing on the Anaconda area, Cardinal/FMZ, Fekola Deeps and Fekola North, with a total of 112,500 metres of diamond and RC drilling planned. The updated Cardinal Zone Mineral Resource model was prepared in-house by B2Gold personnel. Lithology in the Cardinal Zone area is dominantly interbedded mudstones, siltstones, and diorite intrusions, with bedding dipping 35-50° to the west. Shear zones associated with mineralization at the main Cardinal deposit are oriented NNE, dipping moderately to the west; shear zones associated with FMZ structures are oriented NNE, with most dipping steeply to the west. Three-dimensional mineralization domain models, which are used to control gold grade estimates, are supported by pyrite content, alteration, stratigraphy, and shear zone structures. There are 23 mineralization domains modelled. The exploration drill data cut-off for the Cardinal Zone Mineral Resource estimate was December 31, 2021, and the drill data cut-off for RC drilled by the Fekola Mine was December 18, 2021. A total of 1,193 drill holes were used in the estimate including 146 core holes, 415 exploration RC holes, 33 holes that are pre-collared with RC and completed with core, and 599 RC holes drilled by the Fekola Mine geology department. Assays were capped by mineralization domain, or groups of domains, ranging from a cap level of 3 g/t in the low grade (waste) domain to 5 to 30 g/t in the high-grade domains. Gold assays were capped prior to compositing to 2 metres. Grades were estimated into the block model using Ordinary Kriging with searches dynamically controlled along mineralization zone directions. The block model estimates were validated by visual comparison to composite grades, comparison of global block statistics to declustered composites, swath plots by domain to check for local bias and comparison to change of support distributions. More than 10,000 bulk density measurements using the water-displacement method on air-dried core samples were used to assign density in the Cardinal Zone area. Density was assigned to the block model based on averages by mineralization domain and regolith. Nominal targeted drill hole spacing for Indicated Mineral Resources is 40 by 40 metres, and 80 by 80 metres for Inferred Mineral Resources. The primary assay laboratories for exploration samples are SGS Laboratories in Bamako, Mali, and the Fekola Mine laboratory. Bureau Veritas Laboratories in Abidjan, Cote d’Ivoire was used as an alternate lab for a short period in 2020. Samples from RC drilling completed by the Fekola Mine geology department are assayed at the Fekola Mine laboratory. At each laboratory samples are prepared and analyzed using 50-gram fire assay with atomic absorption and/or gravimetric finish. Umpire assaying of exploration samples is conducted on a quarterly basis. Quality assurance and quality control procedures include the systematic insertion of blanks, standards, and duplicates into the sample sequences. The results of the control samples are evaluated on a regular basis with partial batches re-analyzed and/or resubmitted on exploration samples, as needed. All results stated in this announcement have passed B2Gold’s quality assurance and quality control protocols.