Under the terms of the MOU, Akobo Minerals and Oromia Bank, as leaders in their respective fields, will cooperate to develop domestic services related to financing new exploration and mining projects, in accordance with international standards. Together, these services can support the advancement of Ethiopia’s domestic mining industry. Through their collaboration, Akobo Minerals and Oromia Bank hope to become the leading industry mining partner offering operational and financial services, respectively, for new ventures and projects in Ethiopia. Significantly, this co-operation goes beyond general corporate funding facilities and will also encompass community funding opportunities and the rollout of services to rural areas which do not presently have access to modern financial technologies and services. RELATED:Akobo hits more bonanza gold grade zonesAkobo gears up for gold production start-up with opening of rural airstripAkobo Minerals: First gold mover advantage in Ethiopia Jørgen Evjen, CEO of Akobo Minerals, stated: “By bringing our combined mining and banking competences and experience to the table, I believe we can together offer substantial and innovative services that can further the development of the Ethiopian mining industry and local communities.” He added: “This agreement follows our corporate objective of doing business locally and supporting the Ethiopian banking industry to become competitive in its own backyard against foreign financial institutions.” Faysel Yassin, Chief Officer, corporate banking, and international trade at Oromia Bank, said: “We are impressed with the endeavour and commitment that Akobo Minerals has shown in building a strategic model for both national and regional success. Our own philosophy mirrors theirs and is why we are sure that by working together we can do great things for other mining companies that want to succeed in Ethiopia.” Akobo Minerals has also reported its fourth quarter 2021 results. Akobo Minerals is still in a project development phase and consequently had no income in the fourth quarter. The net profit for the period was SEK 0.22 million due to significant positive foreign exchange effects. In total, the company had a net loss of SEK 9.8 million for the financial year 2021. The company has no external debt and a strong cash position of SEK 33 million. Jørgen Evjen, CEO of Akobo Minerals, said: “The fourth quarter of 2021 continued in the same way as previous quarters, with operations pushing ahead full steam. There were positive developments in all areas of our company, included ongoing drilling combined with extensive mine preparations and ESG work.” “After receiving our mining license at the end of Q3, we have considerably advanced the development of our mine operations. The metallurgical test work looked very good with a gold recovery grade expected to be around 97.2%, achieved using tried and tested industry-standard methods. “We decided early upon an operating philosophy of using contract underground mining and a turnkey EPCM contract to source and build the processing plant. Qualified bidder lists have been created for both our mining and processing plant contracts, with many expressions of interest received. “We have engaged world-class consultants on our team that will secure timely and correct choices of partners to develop our Segele mine,” Evjen added: “2022 is well underway and as usual we are in full activity mode, gearing up for gold production from Segele by the end of the year. All preparations for safe and sound mining operations are underway and we are all very eager to move the project forward.”