AIM-listed gold miner Shanta Gold has been for the large part, contentedly and quietly ticking away, producing gold from its single asset New Luika gold mine in Tanzania since 2013. But this is set to change. Not only is the company currently building its second mine in the country, it is actively exploring the potential to extend New Luika’s lifespan further while also upping its exploration game in Kenya to diversify its portfolio footprint, CEO ERIC ZURRIN tells LAURA CORNISH. Shanta Gold has been a ‘one mine’ story for a relatively long time and is perhaps financially underrated as a result of this. As a junior firm, expansion or growth is always challenging when investor perception typically indicates that mining companies in this field are often over ambitious and unsuccessful in delivering on their capital spend. “Of course, on the opposite end of the scale, bigger and more diversified companies don’t suffer this challenge at all. I want to find the middle ground sweet spot for Shanta Gold and put our capital to good use in order to diversify and stay relevant,” Zurrin starts. While the company remains completely committed to Tanzania with a second mine in construction phase and extensive exploration both at and around New Luika, the company is looking to establish itself as a greater gold district player and is already proving that the lucrative Lake Victoria Gold Fields extends into Kenya as well. “Tanzania has delivered 40 Moz of gold over the last 30 years, so why would this story change by moving into Kenya? Lake Victoria is one of best gold endowed districts in the world and our geologists believe there is upwards of 5 Moz in this area where we own our licenses, including in Kenya,” Zurrin highlights. Putting Kenya’s gold potential on the map Shanta Gold has a ‘top notch’ asset in Kenya, one which Zurrin defines as having excellent quality. West Kenya was acquired from Barrick, alongside additional exploration licences in August 2020. Over a 10-year period, Barrick and its subsidiary Acacia Mining had defined a 1.2 Moz, 12.6 g/t ore body at West Kenya specifically – “which is phenomenal as a starting point. Subsequent infill drilling completed earlier in 2021 confirmed the ore body model and provided greater certainty that we had attained a company-changing asset.” With the recruitment of a feasibility manager for West Kenya underway, Shanta Gold’s plans for the project in 2022 are significant. “We will continue to upgrade the resource from inferred to measured and indicated with the continuation of a 40 000 m infill drilling programme. This follows on from an upgrade announcement in September 2021 which delivered an average grade of 7 g/t, with an interesting portion of 10.6 g/t as well. “This project has legs!” A scoping study completed on the project just two months post the acquisition outlines a nine year, 105 000 ozpa operation, delivering at an average LOM grade of 9.3 g/t – for the first two years from surface and then underground thereafter. “With additional ounces confirmed, the economics for this project is set to improve further on the current post-tax NPV8% of US$340 million and an unlevered IRR of 110%,” Zurrin notes. READ MORE ARTICLES ABOUT GOLD “This project clearly fits well into Shanta Gold’s stable and with a clear roadmap in mind could start producing in 2024/2025 if we continue to prove such an economically attractive ore body,” Zurrin confirms. Still a strong foothold in Tanzania Predominantly an underground operation, New Luika has been a successful operation. With eight years of gold production, the last four without an LTI, a harmonious relationship with the neighbouring communities and a 99% Tanzanian national workforce, this is a comfortable position to be in. “New Luika’s lifespan a few years back extended only until 2022, but there has been steady and ongoing investment to realise greater value from the mine by extending its life further which we’ve done.” With another five years of production now secured, exploration drilling to extend this further is already well underway. For now, exploration has largely focused on drilling the existing mining licenses, which has proven lucrative with extensions uncovered at depth on an ore body that remains open at depth and along strike. “We are also evaluating certain district targets which are outstanding a mining license, the most promising to date being an open pit target area called Porcupine South which is located about 20 km from the process plant.” Unfortunately, 2021 was a year of operational difficulty for the mine, specifically relating to the supply by a third-party vendor of an unreliable emulsion product and underground production charging units during the fourth quarter. This saw overall production guidance for 2021 reduced from a range of 60 000 to 65 000 oz to a range of 55 000 to 57 000 ounces. Production from 2022 onwards is set to climb considerably however and will sit within the 75 000 to 80 000 ozpa range over the next five years. “The Shanta Gold portfolio is well funded with cash and available liquidity of US$24.7 million as of 30 November 2021 plus operating cash flow from unhedged gold sales. Our negligible debt position of $1.4 million provides significant additional liquidity on the balance sheet and positions us well to grow and build our business further on the back of the far advanced exploration work we are doing at New Luika and West Kenya,” Zurrin confirms. “With the addition of our second mine in Tanzania coming on stream in 2023, our vision is to exceed 100 000 ozpa thereafter, repositioning this business immediately and priming investors for an even greater future to come as we unpack New Luika’s longer-term potential and bring West Kenya into the production fold,” he concludes. More about Singida Singida is a stand-alone operation located in central Tanzania. It is fully permitted and on schedule to pour first gold in 2023. The expected 35 000 oz of production that year is expected to climb to about 43 000 oz by 2025, maintaining an average grade of about 3 g/t – all from surface resources. “The government is in love with this project. It is the only mine currently in construction in the country, the last being New Luika,” enthuses Zurrin. Singida has always sat in the Shanta Gold portfolio and was in fact the asset upon which the company was listed in 2005. New Luika claimed the limelight soon after, leaving it an idle asset. In 2018/2019 the company had, for the first time, the breathing space to relook at the project and re-estimate its resource. With a high gold price, the decision to put this project on the map was easy.