A steep rise in electric vehicle sales has led to a surge in demand by battery makers for manganese, specifically high purity manganese, which only a handful of companies produce at present – the majority of them based in China. Enter TSXV-listed Giyani Metals’ K.Hill project which is in good stead to satisfy this growing demand. GERARD PETER finds out more from CEO, ROBIN BIRCHALL. High purity manganese, also known as battery grade manganese, is purchased by cathode and battery manufacturers in either a metal or sulphate form. In 2020, the battery grade market represented 0.5% of the total contained manganese consumption. Given increasing EV sales, current producers will need to expand, or new entrants will be needed, to meet forecast demand requirements for high purity manganese from the battery industry. Giyani Metals is currently developing three manganese prospects in Botswana – K.Hill, Otse and Lobatse. K.Hill is the company’s flagship project and is currently undergoing a feasibility study. In October 2021, Giyani Metals announced its maiden indicated mineral resource for the project, which stands at 1.6 Mt at an average grade of 22% manganese oxide (MnO), equivalent to approximately 0.4 Mt of contained manganese (Mn) metal. Inferred mineral resources are 1.4 Mt at an average grade of 13.9% MnO, equivalent to approximately 0.2 Mt contained Mn metal. Total contained Mn metal equates to 1.7 Mt of high purity manganese sulphate monohydrate (HPMSM). Birchall states that the maiden indicated resource statement is a major milestone for Giyani Metals. “Projects which have the potential to be developed for the high purity manganese market are rare and less than 1% of global manganese production currently feeds the battery sector. Of this, around 90% is produced in China.” While K.Hill is a rare find, Birchall explains that there are other factors that make the project unique. “Being competitive is not only about what’s in the ground, but what’s above the ground and around it. The project is located in Botswana which is politically stable and there is also good power, road and rail infrastructure, and a high level of educated and skilled labour that we can benefit from.  Also, we have an experienced management and board with a track record of successful project delivery. When you add that on top of the fact that we have a decent deposit that has low impurities, it becomes a highly attractive proposition.” The K.Hill project is a near-surface deposit and the operation will entail open pit, free-digging mining with no blasting required. It is expected that K.Hill will have an initial production capacity of 120,000 tpa of high purity manganese with a life of mine of at least 10 years. Unlike many other producers, Giyani are not looking to produce metal as an intermediate step, but go directly from ore to high purity sulphate. This process will be less energy intensive and will thus produce a fraction of the carbon emissions of other producers. The ore will be mined and crushed, before being leached with a dilute acid. The solution is then purified of iron, base and transition metals and finally dried (crystallised) to produce the final high purity powder. All this will be done at site in Botswana using locally trained staff. A key advantage of K.Hill is its position in Botswana and close to the border with South Africa. Not only does this mean that it will have ready access to materials needed for processing and well established export routes to core markets like Europe, but it is also a centre for some of the most experienced and sophisticated metallurgical engineers in the world. This knowledge base has been crucial as the company has developed its production process. OEMs show a keen interest As stated earlier, K.Hill is supported by good infrastructure. The project is located near the town of Kanye, which hosts good rail and road connections, sufficient water supply and a reliable power connectivity. There are five seaports accessible by rail and road with shipping to Asia, Europe and North America. Also, Botswana is the number one ranked jurisdiction in Africa in terms of investment attractiveness, and 11th most attractive jurisdiction overall (out of 77) according to the Fraser Institute Annual Survey of Mining Companies 2020. No doubt that once in production, K.Hill will be a key contributor to the ‘green economy’. However, Giyani Metals wants to play an even bigger role and has committed to being a low-carbon footprint producer. To that end, the company is looking to build a solar plant at K.Hill. “We are still finalising how much power we will need but we will definitely build a solar power supply and it could range from 4.5 MW to 40 MW. It’s a discussion that we have to have with the Botswana Power Corporation as to how much they will let us build and if we can also sell some of the power to the national grid,” explains Birchall. Furthermore, Giyani Metals has already had fruitful discussions to supply its product to OEMs. “We have already signed a non-commercial supply agreement with one of the largest automakers in the world and will soon send a small number of manganese crystals to them for their first stage of testing. In addition, we will also send our product to other interested parties with the view of signing off-take agreements with them,” adds Birchall. Given current market conditions and the fact that is located in a mining-friendly jurisdiction with sound infrastructure, K.Hill has all the makings to be a crucial supplier to the ever-growing EV battery market.