AIM-listed lithium junior Atlantic Lithium is set to become Ghana’s, and West Africa’s first lithium producer. While this will be an impressive achievement, it is made even more so considering the company acquired its tenements in 2016 – equating to an aggressive exploration programme that has taken the project quickly up the value curve. With a production start-up target of end 2023, the company is set to accomplish what few juniors do – taking a project from Greenfields exploration to production in less than eight years, MD VINCENT MASCOLO tells LAURA CORNISH. Atlantic Lithium may be a new name to the African mining sector, but it is by no means a new player. Previously known as IronRidge Resources, the company was granted board approval to rebrand in November 2021 – for obvious reasons. “Our new name reflects our strategic direction as a pure lithium focused business and is the confirmation our shareholders were looking for to guarantee our focus and commitment to developing our lithium asset portfolio,” Mascolo starts. The gold assets previously sitting under the IronRidge name have been spun out of the portfolio entirely and are now housed within a newly established entity – Ricca Resources. “The name change, and subsequent focus has been many years in the making, and the growing electric vehicle market deemed the timing right to do so,” Mascolo continues. “Our clearer focus and direction now fall within the requirement of interested shareholders who want access to our lithium portfolio alone.” Why Atlantic Lithium? “50% of our product has already been secured by US-based lithium mine developer and processor Piedmont Lithium – which will be shipped to their facility across the Atlantic Ocean. We will also service the European market and are, in essence, situated on the Atlantic Ocean. The name was obvious.” The exploration story Mascolo and COO Len Kolff have always believed that Africa holds untapped potential for significant lithium discoveries. Intensive online research unearthed references about a historical lithium deposit known as Egyasimanku Hill, which was first discovered in the late 1960s. Mascolo and Kolff sourced the information to a book in a library in a London-based university and used this as a basis to investigate further before acquiring the deposit and commenced ‘pegging  ground’ in September 2016. “This is a pure Greenfields, first principles discovery – based on no more than four years of exploration,” Mascolo highlights. And while the exploration and study work has largely been completed to secure the necessary mining licence and move what is now known as the Ewoyaa pegmatite, hard rock lithium project into construction phase, it is by no means the end to the company’s exploration story. “New discoveries are our speciality and we’ve honed our skills for turning Greenfields exploration projects into ‘something meaningful’. Our priority is to move Ewoyaa into development, but we will concurrently undertake resource exploration drilling and target definitions. It remains a priority for our team to increase the scale of the resource concurrently.” Importantly, Atlantic Lithium owns a second lithium tenure in Côte d’Ivoire covering an area of 774 km². As an early stage project, it requires a lot of exploration work, and for now, it remains a secondary priority to Ewoyaa. Ewoyaa moving with speed Atlantic Lithium is busy, very busy, which is no surprise in light of its short-term development aspirations. In December the company announced a significant 47% increase in its mineral resource estimate which now totals 21.3 Mt at 1.31% Li₂O for the Ewoyaa deposit and surrounding pegmatites, which fall into a larger portfolio (560 km²) known as Cape Coast Lithium. This will see the company revise its scoping study which already showcases favourable economics for the project and will fast track this in order to move directly to pre-feasibility study which is underway and well advanced. With this in hand, the company can apply for the necessary permits. Nearly two years of work on the environmental and social baseline work has already been completed, meaning the company is fully prepared to submit its applications without delay. “The project is fully funded with US$103 million in hand. In support of our exceptional metallurgy and geology, we are also well positioned to export product and can do so easily with the necessary infrastructure in place,” Mascolo highlights. “We also have no debt and c. $20 million in the bank. What’s not to like about this story?” For now, Ewoyaa’s scoping study outlines an 11.4 -year mine life producing roughly 300 000 tpa of spodumene concentrate. This equates to 3.6 Mt of spodumene concentrate over the lifespan with about 189 000 t of contained lithium. To date its overall resource grade highlights robust geological fundamentals and the estimate includes 5.2 Mt at 1.39% Li₂O of indicated mineral resource. “Our sights are set on delivering first lithium concentrate towards the end of 2023, ambitious yes, but we also have full endorsement from the Ghanian government who are eager to put lithium production on the map. No major challenges stand in our way to delivering on this objective.” Mascolo reiterates at this stage that exploration upside remains crucial to the company’s overall strategy in play. “We will explore our property further, beyond the 13 km² we’ve looked at to date and build a greater production profile on the back of this.” To date the company knows of a historic 1.48 Mt at 1.67% Li₂O that comprises part of the Egyasimanku Hill deposit. Mineralisation at Ewoyaa also remains open at depth and along strike with additional untested pegmatites within the immediate deposit area, providing potential for further resource upgrades. Regional exploration and target definition remains ongoing with four Auger rigs on site. Resource drilling will re-commence in early 2022. “We consider ourselves ‘outside the box’ thinkers and we’ve ensured we have optionality and flexibility to take advantage of opportunities. In a nutshell, that is our business – designed to guarantee company making deals,” Mascolo concludes. The gold portfolio On 22 December 2021, Atlantic Lithium’s gold assets (situated in Chad and Côte d’Ivoire) were fully demerged and housed within a newly established gold focused entity called Ricca Resources. Côte d’Ivoire comprises a 3,928km² exploration gold portfolio, with primary focus on the Zaranou deposit situated about four hours’ drive from Abidjan. Chad comprises a 746 km² exploration portfolio, with primary focus on the Dorothe gold project where tranching and sampling has been completed and visible 1 cm gold nuggets discovered.