Technology is developing at the rate of knots with advancements creating new and lucrative underground exploration opportunities. Now, in a first for Africa, two highly advanced pieces of equipment are set to boldly go where no man has gone before. GERARD PETER spoke to Dwyka Mining Services CEO JAMIE VAN SCHOOR and Emesent Technical Evangelist, DR JEREMY SOFONIA about these revolutionary machines. Dwyka Mining Services is a mining technology platform that assists underground mining clients to adopt and adapt to evolving technologies in the collaborative pursuit of the digital mine of the future. It is the African representative for a number of the world’s leading technology suppliers such as Emesent, a specialist in underground SLAM LiDAR mapping and Boston Dynamics, a specialist robotics company. In November last year, the company introduced Boston Dynamics’ Spot Enterprise robot to the African market. While many robots are designed to move on wheels or tracks, often limiting their exploration capabilities, Spot is a quadruped robot that is able to walk and climb and is capable of navigating multiple environments with agility and unprecedented mobility.  Used in conjunction with a tablet controller, it allows for mining companies to capture data securely and safely, and allow for streamlined operations in complex and dangerous environments. Spot’s tablet controller gives the user easy access to many of the robot’s capabilities, including body posing, walking gaits, obstacle avoidance, local navigation, and calibration. The tablet controller also enables the creation of basic autonomous missions through Autowalk, a feature where the user can create predefined routes for Spot to follow. Van Schoor explains that Spot is able to operate in ‘no-go’ areas that humans can’t reach. “When we design mines, we almost always need to navigate environments that humans cannot access. Now, we can send Spot into these areas to collect data without having to put people at risk.” Spot is particularly useful in ‘fly low’ mining areas, typical at the majority of narrow reef mining operations in Southern Africa where the use of drones is limited. “When operating our autonomous drones in low hanging South African bord and pillar mines, we are operating on the edge of Emesent’s VESH or ‘protective bubble’ for collision avoidance, limiting our ability to reach certain areas. Spot is agile enough to maneuver in these low areas and collect mission critical data and imagery,” adds Van Schoor. The robotic innovation can be used as a powerful exploration platform with purpose-built remote sensing capailities including cameras and turnkey integration, delivering high resolution data capture and enhanced operator experiences. The data collation process is also simple. After scanning the area, Spot returns to its docking station where it is charged and also offloads data seamlessly to a user-friendly enterprise platform. One of the early adopters of Spot is Trevali Mining Corporation who is using the robot as part of its expansion of its Rosh Pinah lead-zinc mine is Namibia. In addition to exploration activities, Spot will be used to collect more real-time data and further automate Trevali’s processes in its underground mines to ensure a safer, more efficient and more predictable environment for its employees. “This is great news for the African industry and the mining sector and a first for the continent, bringing next-generation innovation and intelligent automation capabilities that will transform safety and remote data capture for improved exploration, mine design and planning,” states Van Schoor. “At Trevali, one of our core competencies entail the selection, implementation and value realisation of strategically aligned 4IR technologies. We believe that autonomous robotics can play a great role in ensuring our current (and future) operations continually create sustainable value. As such our newest companion, Spot, will greatly facilitate our vision of becoming the future of mining, adds Wayne Hempel, Head of Technology and Innovation at Trevali. Another tool in the toolbox Spot’s capabilities are further enhanced when used in combination with technology solutions and platforms to extend the range, reach and remote sensing capabilities in challenging mining environments. “Spot is a platform for what we call a payload, which is any device that we can attach to a drone or a robot. By adding a payload to Spot, we can further enhance its exploration capabilities with the ultimate goal of capturing the reality of underground conditions to augment human effort and reduce risk to personnel,” explains Van Schoor. One such payload is Emesent’s Hovermap, a mobile SLAM based LiDAR mapping solution. Traditionally, Hovermap is mounted to a drone or used for walking, vehicle or backpack-mounted scans. Now, Dwyka Mining Services, Emesent and Boston Dynamics are collaborativley looking at ways to mount the device onto Spot to provide LiDAR mapping in challenging, inaccessible areas to unlock beyond visual line of sight exploration. Sofonia explains that Spot adds further versality to Hovermap’s capabilities. “Whether you’re an electrician, a plumber or a carpenter, you always have more than one tool in your toolbox to be prepared for different types of activities and challenges. You can use Hovermap off-drone for walking or vehicle mounted scans or on a drone for full autonomy and now Spot is adding another capability and tool to your digital toolbox.” The Spot/Hovermap combination will also be particularly useful for carrying drones as a mobile launch platform to conserve flight time battery and operating in dusty conditions, particulary in gold mines. “Drones props create a lot of airflow and can actually be the cause of kicking up a great deal of residual fines. This prevents the drone from safely seeing its environment and navigating that space safely. Spot will have a lower impact in such conditions and will be able to better penetrate those types of environments,” adds Sofonia. The new mapping solution is currently in R&D and being trialled at a number of Southern African operations in the new year and undoubtably will change the face of underground exploration as the combined technologies delve further and deeper to unlock further mining potential.