Ivanhoe Mines, responsible for two of the greatest copper discoveries in history at its Kamoa-Kakula project west of Kolwezi in the DRC, is aiming for fresh exploration success on its Western Foreland licences in the same area. The company refers to Western Foreland as “the next great copper frontier” and currently has an extensive exploration programme underway, which includes 40 000 m of combined air-core and diamond drilling, airborne and ground-based geophysics, soil sampling and road construction. The 2021 exploration budget for Western Foreland is US$21 million. The Western Foreland project comprises 17 licences to the north, south, and west of the Kamoa mining licences which cover 2 550 km2. The primary exploration target in the Western Foreland area is Kamoa-Kakula-style sedimentary copper mineralisation. Exploration models that led to the discoveries of Kakula, Kakula West and the Kamoa North Bonanza Zone on the Kamoa-Kakula mining licence are being applied to Ivanhoe’s Western Foreland and package by the same team of exploration geologists responsible for those successes. Ivanhoe’s exploration team won the 2015 Thayer Lindsley International Discovery Award for the discovery of the Kamoa deposit, which was announced by Ivanhoe in 2009. The Award, one of the most prestigious in the geological field, is presented annually by the Prospectors & Developers Association of Canada (PDAC). The resource at Kamoa-Kakula has since grown significantly, with Ivanhoe announcing in February 2020 that indicated resources totalled 423 Mt grading 4.68% copper, containing 43.7 Blb of copper. “Our record of discovery successes at Kamoa-Kakula is unparalleled, and we have tremendous confidence in the ability and tenacity of our exploration team to leverage our proprietary exploration knowledge to deliver the DRC’s next great copper discovery on our 100%-owned ground,” comments Robert Friedland, Ivanhoe’s founder, and executive co-chairman. “He adds that Western Foreland area, which is more than six times larger than the Kamoa-Kakula mining licence, is unquestionably one of the most prospective copper exploration districts anywhere in the world.” In its most recent update on Western Foreland, Ivanhoe says that drilling has been focused on the western and eastern extensions of the Makoko discovery, as well as the three northern and western extensions of the Kiala discovery. Good progress was made on construction of critical infrastructure to access high priority, newly acquired westerly exploration permits, including construction of a 60 km spine road across the Western Foreland and a new bridge across the Lubudi River. Geophysical airborne surveys such as magnetics, gravity and electromagnetics are scheduled to start shortly. This new geophysical data will enhance the target delineation programme for drill testing and soil sampling. New resources that might be discovered on Western Foreland will ultimately feed into the Kamoa-Kakula copper complex. The first mine of the complex – Kakula – achieved commercial production recently and is projected to produce approximately 200 000 tpa of copper. It will be followed by other mines in successive phases of the project which will ultimately see Kamoa-Kakula becoming the world’s second biggest copper mine.