When Natascha took over as CEO of Anglo American Platinum in April 2020, she brought with her 28 years of operational experience from across the mining industry, spanning many different countries, metals and minerals including, of course, PGMs. As the first female CEO to head the platinum giant, there is no doubt that Natascha has all the right credentials to lead the company. She began her career as an engineer at Iscor and, amongst other roles, took on leadership positions at AngloGold Ashanti and was general manager of BHP’s Klipspruit colliery before joining Lonmin in 2008. At Lonmin, Viljoen was executive vice-president of processing while also leading the company’s sustainability, employee health, environmental and stakeholder relations work. Prior to her appointment as CEO, Viljoen was group head of processing for Anglo American. In that role, she led a trusted global team that has unlocked value across Anglo American’s processing operations safely and with a long term perspective, recognising their critical commercial place in the mining value chain. Under Natascha’s leadership, her team successfully leveraged and accelerated technology development and deployment to unlock the full potential of mineral endowments through processing, delivering significant financial value and competitive advantage. She and her team were recognised for their work in developing coarse particle recovery technology which enables the separation of metals from rock using a fraction of the energy and water of traditional methods, while increasing throughput and productivity. Natascha became CEO when the world was facing unprecedented times, yet, throughout the  turbulence, she continued to ensure that the company continued to build its business for the future and remained focused on the next wave of value creation for all its stakeholders. The initiatives she is overseeing include: With Natascha at the helm, Anglo American Platinum has the opportunity to re-imagine how the company operates – in its mines and its host communities. No doubt, with a wealth of experience and a clear vision, Natascha is well suited to take the company to even greater heights in the coming years. Over and above the phenomenal work that she is doing for Anglo American Platinum, she still finds time to serve on advisory boards of the chemical engineering faculties at the South African universities of Cape Town and Stellenbosch, and Queensland University’s JKMRC (Julius Kruttschnitt Mineral Research Centre) in Australia. She has served as a non-executive director on the board of Kumba Iron Ore. Natascha is a metallurgical engineer and holds a Bachelor of Engineering degree from North-West University in South Africa and an Executive MBA from the University of Cape Town, South Africa.