How much resource potential do South Africa’s existing mines still hold? How do we mine deeper and in a safe manner? These are the questions that the CSIR’s (Council for Scientific and Industrial Research) Mining Cluster are tasked to answer. GERARD PETER finds out more from Principal Geophysicist, DR MICHAEL VAN SCHOOR. The Mining Cluster comprises geophysicists, geologists and mining engineers that make up the core of the team. In addition, it also employs the services of other research arms of the CSIR, such as robotics, in order to conduct its work. Van Schoor states that its mandate is to carry out secondary exploration in existing mines, particularly underground operations. He adds that his team has found a niche for secondary exploration due largely in part to the fact that operating mines don’t employ full-time geophysicists. “When there are budgetary constraints, exploration activities are usually the first to be cut. As such, geophysics is not always seen as a critical part of an operation and it is only when companies encounter problems that this science can solve, will they consult with a geophysicist. At the CSIR, we have always had a geophysics  team because there will always be mines that have problems that need to be addressed using geophysics.” In recent years, the CSIR has assisted in secondary exploration in platinum mines in the Bushveld Complex, gold mines in Witwatersrand and Free State areas as well as coal and diamond mines on an occasional basis. Van Schoor explains that one of the areas where the Mining Cluster assists is when companies have identified deposits that are going to be mined in the future or are already mining a deposit. “We assist by providing more detailed information about the geometry of the orebody, any geological structures that might impede extraction and any areas that might be associated with unsafe ground conditions.” A key driving force for secondary exploration is optimal extraction, i.e., mining cost effectively, especially at the country’s gold mines. Van Schoor points out that it has become increasingly difficult to mine good ore grades as this requires companies to go deeper, thereby making operations more expensive and hazardous. In this regard, the CSIR can assist companies in identifying the challenges they will have face when they mine deeper and to tailor their plans so that they can extract as much of the ore bodies as possible without taking out unnecessary waste. Forearmed is forewarned Another vital motivator to undertake secondary exploration is safety, particularly at a time when mining related fatality figures in South Africa have regressed for the second consecutive year. “Most fatalities can be attributed to fall of ground incidents as a result of poor ground conditions, geological structures or structural features that are induced by  blasting and mining activities. Through geophysics, we aim  to determine these conditions ahead of mining in order to make operations safer,” adds Van Schoor. The team is currently looking at ways to automate this process either through a robotic platform or by attaching the sensors to a machine that is already in use at the face. As the face advances, the sensors will regularly scan the hanging wall and create a 3D image of any structural features ahead of mining,” explains Van Schoor. Without doubt, technological advancement has been a key enabler to secondary exploration. For example, it has allowed the CSIR to gather data at a faster rate. “Thanks to faster computing and modern, state-of-the-art geophysical equipment, what used to take us two days to acquire data 20 years ago, can now be done in under an hour. Furthermore, advances in computing now allows us to create 3D models as well as undertake numerical modeling at a much faster rate,” add Van Schoor. The team is also researching how to use drone technology in its activities. This includes surveying underground areas that cannot be accessed by mine workers as well as at existing open pit operations in areas where it is not safe for people to walk on or for machinery to drive over. Van Schoor correctly points out that mining is a cutthroat business; if you can’t mind cost effectively, then you’re not going to survive. And for many South African mines, the only way to be profitable is to mine cost-effectively as they mine deeper;  however, they need to do so in a safe way. The CSIR Mining Cluster is playing a key role in helping to realise this goal.