Themba was appointed CEO of Kumba Iron Ore in 2016 and, since then, scarcely seems to have put a foot wrong. At the time of his appointment, Kumba was reportedly looked upon as a disposable asset by its parent, Anglo American, but is now – roughly five years later – regarded as one of the star performers in the group. In its 2020 financial year, it reported strong earnings growth of 40% and a Return on Capital Employed (ROCE) of 109%, up from 83% in the previous year. Themba cannot take all the credit for Kumba’s good showing over the past several years as a surging iron ore price has obviously been of huge assistance. Nevertheless, most observers believe he has performed exceedingly well, turning Kumba – already a very good company when he took over – into an outstanding one, with world-class corporate governance in place, an excellent record on sustainability, and cutting-edge technology driving its mining and processing operations. During his tenure, Kumba enjoyed a truly superlative safety record and (as of July 2021) had worked five years without a fatality, no mean achievement for a group with two large open pit mines in the Northern Cape, a port operation at Saldanha Bay in the Western Cape and an employee complement of more than 12 000 people. During his watch, Kumba introduced its Tswelelopele strategy to achieve margin enhancement and extend the life of its assets, with both these goals being largely met. Since implementing Tswelelopele in 2018, the company’s EBITDATA margin has grown from 45% to 57% while cumulative cost savings amount to R3.2 billion. Sishen’s life now extends to 2039 as a result of both pit optimisation and the ultra-high dense media separation (UHDMS) project; while at Kolomela the development of the Kapstevel South pit – although it does not extend mine life – will contribute significantly to sustaining production for the remaining life of mine. Under Themba’s direction Kumba also responded very effectively to the COVID-19 pandemic, with its interventions including screening, testing and quarantine procedures, diverse community relief efforts, as well as business contingency plans implemented across its value chain. CLICK HERE to find out who our #1 mining leader isCLICK HERE to find out who our #2 mining leader isCLICK HERE to find out who our #3 mining leader isCLICK HERE to find out who our #4 mining leader isCLICK HERE to find out who our #5 mining leader isCLICK HERE to find out who our #6 mining leader isCLICK HERE to find out who our #7 mining leader isCLICK HERE to find out who our #8 mining leader is More recently, the company revised its COVID-19 testing strategy to include antibody and rapid antigen testing and it has also embarked on a vaccination programme. In 2020 around R93 million was spent on countering the effects of the pandemic. Themba’s position as CEO of Kumba crowned a long and very successful career in mining. A B.Eng (Chemical Engineering) graduate of Teesside University in the UK, his past positions included being MD of Huntsman Tioxide Southern Africa (2004-2007), COO at Richards Bay Minerals (2007-2010), GM Expansion Support at Rio Tinto Coal Australia (2011-2012), Regional GM Americas for Rio Tinto (2013-2014) and CEO of Anglo American Coal South Africa (2014-2016). He also currently serves as one of the two vice presidents of the Minerals Council South Africa. The latter half of 2021 revealed Themba would be leaving his post as CEO of Kumba Iron Ore. He has been appointed new CEO Bulk Commodities at Anglo American. The appointment became effective from January. If his record at Kumba is anything to go by, Themba will be a great addition to the bulk commodities business.