Sandfire Resources has provided a development and construction pictorial update for its 100%-owned Motheo Copper Mine in Botswana. Motheo is a substantial new long-life copper mine and one of the few new copper mines under construction anywhere in the world. It is expected to become the cornerstone of a long-term copper mining hub for Sandfire in the world-class Kalahari Copper Belt. As outlined in the attached update, development at Motheo is proceeding on schedule and on budget, with first production expected in the first half of calendar year 2023. Some of the key recent developments include: Sandfire intends to fund the development of the Motheo Copper Mine through a combination of cash and project debt. Credit committee approved offers for debt financing of the US$160 million required for the Base Case development have now been received from the Company’s short-list of potential international lenders. The selection of syndicate banks and finalisation of terms will be completed during the March 2022 Quarter. Sandfire Managing Director and CEO, Karl Simich, said: “This is the first of what we intend to be a regular series of pictorial updates on our progress at Motheo over the coming year. It is very gratifying to see the enormous progress being made on the ground by our team in Botswana, led by our Project Director, Ian Kerr. “Despite the challenges confronting new construction projects around the world, our team has been doing a wonderful job keeping the project firmly on track, on time and on budget and, importantly, always ensuring the health and safety of our employees and contractors. “We already have over 1,000 people on site, and we expect this to increase to 1,500 over the course of the year. “Motheo is one of the few new long-life copper mines under construction and, together with our recently acquired MATSA Mining Operation in Spain, will be a key driver of Sandfire’s growth into the future. “We are looking forward to seeing this substantial new copper mine rapidly take shape. We are also looking forward to the completion of the 5.2 Mtpa Motheo Expansion Case DFS next quarter, which will define our rapid growth pathway as soon as production commences.”