September 2021 marked a full year of John Taolo Gaetsewe Region-based passenger transportation company Itekeng Taxi Holdings (ITH) transporting Menar Mining Services staff to and from work at the East Manganese mine in Hotazel, Northern Cape. ITH started operating in April 2019 and Menar Mining Services was one of its early clients. In September 2020, ITH embarked on its first long term opportunity with East Manganese mine. ITH Director Tumi Peter explains that ITH is a company that was established for the Itekeng Taxi Association in order to enable its members to gain access to business opportunities. “The Itekeng Taxi Association is the sole taxi association from the most disadvantaged local municipality of Joe Morolong in the John Taolo Gaetsewe Region. We registered ITH in 2018, as a vehicle to enter the corporate world as a non-exclusive agency to Itekeng Taxi Association members,” Tumi states. “ITH appreciates the great opportunity East Manganese has provided our members and have been able to enjoy the benefits thereof. This venture thus far has benefitted 9 members in the last 12 months. Most importantly, ITH has gained great experience in the mining sector and it continues to grow and become a better company on a daily basis. The professional approach to business from the mine has given ITH a great learning chapter which will go a long way as ITH grows from nothing to being a specialist in mining staff transport services,” adds ITH Logistics Manager Rapelang Visagie. “Menar Mining Services is pleased with the quality of work performed by Itekeng Taxi Holdings and appreciates the professional approach from Itekeng Taxi Holdings towards execution of the works entrusted to them,” says Menar Mining Services Procurement Manager Carmia Pretorius. Read more about Menar Giving back to the community ITH Marketing and Communications Manager Thapelo Semho recently embarked on a project to donate school shoes at Manyeding Primary School, which is located in the Manyeding village in the Joe Morolong Local Municipality about 30 km north-east of Kuruman. ITH presented 20 pairs of shoes with socks as part of its milestone celebration of working with East Manganese.