Nigeria has been ignorantly exporting wealth and employment through foreign nationals exporting unprocessed minerals from the country without adding any value to the commodities, hence not adding value to its mineral sectors. According to the Minister of Mines and Steel Development, over 35 million metric tonnes of unprocessed solid minerals are reportedly exported from Nigeria each year. Mainly, the downstream process is the window by which the country opens its mining sector to the world. Therefore, policies to help develop the downstream industries that add value to Nigeria’s mineral resources – such as beneficiation, smelting and refining – need to be put in place and enacted. Piramen Ventures, one of the daughter companies of Emotan Global Ventures, established by Emotan, has taken a bold step which many are afraid to take by investing majorly in artisanal and small-scale mines in many of their mines in Nigeria. These include Dass in Bauchi State, Bugundu in Zamfara, Ganya in Adamawa State, Gwaram in Jigawa State and Toungo in Adamawa State, to name a few. Through this company Emotan has been progressively involving the local communities by offering them: Over the span of the last few years, Emotan has successfully trained lapidarists on the beneficiation of gemstones, with a list of applicants currently under training. She also has a market scheduled to be opened soon to further promote the art and trade of safely and locally mined minerals and gemstones. Furthermore, there are plans underway to form partnerships with companies like the Gemological Institute of America (GIA), a non-profit institute dedicated to research and education in the field of gemology and the jewellery arts for training on gemstones. CLICK HERE to find out who our #1 mining leader is CLICK HERE to find out who our #2 mining leader is Another partnership being explored is with SGS in order to establish more testing laboratories with all testing carried out within the shores of Africa – hence improving every arm involved in locally mined gemstones and minerals. Emotan is extremely passionate about Nigeria and this can be seen through the work she is doing. An extensive traveller, she always returns home with the intent of establishing Nigeria as a true gemstone hub. Having spoken in the past of her support for the ministry and the Nigerian Minister of Mines and Steel Development, Arc. Olamilekan Adegbite more specifically, she is also willing to state publicly what she feels is in the best interest of the country – and particularly with regard to artisanal mining.