Gekko Systems recently released the improved next-gen model Carbon Scout MK6, a self-contained, ground-level sampling system that measures the pH, dissolved oxygen (DO), density and gold concentration in carbon-in-leach (CIL) and carbon-in-pulp (CIP) circuits. The self-contained device collects slurry samples from CIL/CIP tanks to determinethe distribution of the activated carbon in the pulp for each tank, to an accuracy of ±0.5 grams of carbon per litre of pulp. The machine improves the accuracy, regularity, and consistency of carbon density measurements in CIL/CIP circuits. As the Carbon Scout continues to roll out to mines around the world, Gekko have listened to the customer, taken the feedback from different sites and applied it to the latest model. As a result, the Gekko team has released an improved Carbon Scout. New features include an optional XRF to measure gold on carbon for real time gold circuit inventory, updated diagnostics, pinch valves, detailed alarming (via the new flowmeter and pressure sensor), and updated programming to easily integrate carbon automation. The new standard integration design for master control allows for remote monitoring of the Carbon Scout. The Carbon Scout is a unique solution that offers the ability to automate the complete carbon circuit, including: • Online detection of carbon concentration• In circuit slurry density measurements• Measurement of gold on carbon for real time gold circuit inventory• Measurement of pH and DO• Single point measurement of multiple CIL/CIP tanks• A large consistent sample size that collects 10 times more slurry than manual sampling• Sample extraction from each tank at a consistent location and depth• More frequent tank sampling compared with manual sampling• Integration with the plant process control systems (e.g. SCADA)• A ground level sampling system for easy collection of gold-in-circuit (GIC) samples• Programmable sampling frequency The Carbon Scout benefits sites by allowing automation of the carbon movement, minimising exposure to HCN gas and reducing the need for manual handling of samples. Constructed of stainless steel, the ground level system enhances operator efficiency by removing the need to undertake time consuming manual sampling and provides a single point sampling station. The automation of carbon movement increases the efficiency of the process, ensures carbon inventory set points are achieved and reduces the need for operator, metallurgist, and other processing staff input. For more information visit, www.gekkos.com or email gekkos@gekkos.com