For mine managers who have just spent billions to mechanise their mining operations – and now need to play catch-up to get their workforce to master these new trackless mining machines (TMM) – existing training offerings present another headache. The conventional option (using heavy, cumbersome, steel-framed containers laden with rows of projectors and computers acting as TMM simulators) is expensive, with cumbersome electronics, troublesome maintenance and exorbitant upgrade costs. This begs the question: With Walmart using 17 000 VR headsets and Saab using the latest state-of-the-art VR headsets to train their Gripen pilots, why can’t miners do the same? The immersive VR option has now become very viable and very cost-effective. Sts3D, a leading provider of VR Mines, Stopes and Blast Walls, recently launched a range of immersive VR equipment simulators – drill rigs, LHDs, Roof-bolters, dump trucks, even mud guns for smelters. Immersive VR – as close to real as you can get “Immersive Virtual Reality provides an uncanny sense of realism. It is the closest to real you can get and is ideal for the ‘learn-by-doing’ part of psychomotor skills such as handling equipment controls,” says sts3D MD Wilhelm Prinsloo. RELATED:Immersive Technologies – Simulation that delivers resultsUnderground training: An evolutionary process of scienceXR technology masterclass: Mining and education combo “With immersive VR you can examine the mining environment from every angle, walk around the machine, inspect components, complete the pre-use checklist, and start up. With the motion platform you can tram, and then operate, a vehicle. “With immersion, the depth perception enables learners to experience the accuracy, depth, and collaring of drill holes. The hydraulic physics also gives a real-time display of the force exerted on the drill rod – with learners feeling the force that each piston is taking during operation, sensing the ‘jiggle’ on the boom and the bending and breaking of drill rods when applying too much force.” Fluent performance through repetition The simulated mining conditions require operators to master practical competencies such as speed, precision, dexterity and coordination. Learners are now able to achieve beyond mere ‘competency’ by learning the ‘tricks of the trade’ to fully enhance performance. “By being fully captive in the headset, learners can practise various patterns without distraction and master operating protocols through several rounds of repetition – achieving fluent performance by building muscle memory. “It’s not a question anymore of operators looking at three TV screens in front of them. With immersive VR the learners react to changing mining conditions, falling rock, equipment faults, emergency scenarios – thus sharpening their decision-making skills.” Ease of use “It’s easy to deploy the simulators,” says Prinsloo. “Set up within an hour or two, it requires no heavy lifting or calibration and is easy to operate. At the Murray and Roberts Training Academy I’ve seen first time VR headset users mastering the controls within minutes. It’s easy to move as well. The drill rig simulator fits in the boot of your car. And you can take it underground if you want to train teams at their workplace.” Integrated learning Recognising that mining is a team effort, sts3D is now integrating the VR Blast Wall with the drill rig to show the interdependencies between miners and operators. Likewise, sts3D has designed a VR Learning Centre for Anglo American Platinum’s Unki mine in Zimbabwe. This venue contains equipment simulators, immersive simulations of blind spots and operator fatigue; a VR Wall app for entry examination and marking and blasting; game-based mine cycle, survey note, ventilation and traffic management simulations, and interactive touch screens. The touch screens display checklists and fault-finding schematics; strata control and support simulations; safety protocols, hazard scenarios and ‘learning from incident’ simulations. The result is a comprehensive, process-based, learning solution… all under one roof.