Pan African has provided its gold production figures and a preliminary operational update for the financial year ended 30 June 2022. Pan African CEO Cobus Loots commented: “We are very pleased with the Group’s operational performance over the last year, and the record gold production achieved by our teams during this period. The Group has made meaningful progress with our production growth projects at Evander underground and at Barberton’s Royal Sheba; both projects are on schedule to start delivering within their anticipated production timeframes. RELATED:Pan African concludes Mogale Gold Definitive Feasibility StudyPan African explores extensions of ore bodies at Barberton MinesPan African Resources initiates share buyback programmePan African Resources initiates exploration programme Sudan “We have further strengthened our balance sheet over the last year, despite the payment of a record dividend and incurring significant growth and sustaining capital expenditure. A key focus area in the year ahead will be the smaller underground operations at Barberton, to ensure that these assets perform to their full potential. “Significant milestones have also been achieved with progress on our ESG projects, including the commissioning of our first solar PV renewable energy project at Elikhulu, the first of its scale in the South African mining industry. We are also excited about the imminent commencement of construction of Barberton’s solar PV plant. “The Group plans to generate 30 MW of solar PV renewable energy by 2024, with commensurate cost savings of approximately R100 million or US$6,1million per year, and a large reduction in carbon emissions. At Barberton, commercial harvesting of blueberries has commenced and employment of seasonal labour is ramping up, as planned. “We look forward to presenting our 2022 year-end financial results in September, and to provide further details and information on the impact of our initiatives and operations and the value created for our stakeholders.” Key highlights