The Tshiamiso Trust has paid more than half a billion rand to 5 829 eligible silicosis and TB claimants and their families and is gaining increased momentum in processing claims. The Trust is responsible for compensating all eligible current and former mineworkers across southern Africa with permanent impairment due to silicosis or work-related TB, or their dependants where the mineworker has passed away. Tshiamiso has ramped up its efforts in processing deceased claims, thereby addressing a significant backlog that had accumulated. The past few months have seen the Trust building system capabilities for tracking down and authenticating historical medical records, as well as the searching and validation of dependents to be added as beneficiaries.It has successfully certified its first batches of claimants and is in the final stages of the payment process. “In April, we announced that we had reached R320 million in payments to qualifying claimants in the 16 months since our inception. Two months later, we are excited to announce that we have surpassed that milestone and reached over R500 million in payments, placing us at 10% of our lifetime target of R5billion in the second year of operations. This exceptional achievement owes to the strong partnerships we have established, the continuous enhancement of our systems, and the expanded operational capabilities as we have grown our footprint in South Africa and neighbouring countries”. says Daniel Kotton, CEO of Tshiamiso Trust. Read more about health: Mining in Elites in Africa 2022: Winner – Health and Safety The Trust has come under much criticism, mostly related to dissatisfaction about the speed of processing claims, or discontent based on a limited understanding of its very stringent requirements for compensation. In response to the frustrations that claimants are experiencing, the Trust has committed to to ensuring that compensation payments getto eligible claimants as quickly as possible. The company admits that claims related to deceased mineworkers are difficult to process as death certificates often state that the claimant died from natural causes, making no reference to silicosis or TB. In response to this, the Trust has partnered with various government bodies and provincial health departments to access historical healthdata, unabridged death certificates, post-mortem reports, and medical records from clinics and hospitals. This may be a mammoth task in itself, since some archives dating back to 1965 have not been digitized. Claimants are reminded to be careful of people impersonating the Trust or promising to help speed up their claims, stressing that only the Tshiamiso Trust can process claims.