As electricity prices continue to skyrocket in South Africa, the impact this is having on intensive and grid-dependent industries is severe. Deep level underground mines find themselves in this situation and need to consider every option to reduce their power consumption. One solution lies within these mines’ deep level dewatering shafts, writes LAURA CORNISH. South Africa is home to many large-scale, deep level mine shafts where large volumes of high-pressure water is pumped to surface after use in various applications around the mine. “This creates the perfect environment to generate energy and in so doing, reduce total electricity demand from the grid,” says David Landsberg, head of services & engineering for Sulzer Pumps South Africa’s southern Africa region. Traditionally, to manage the high-pressure water flow, a dissipator is placed on standard centrifugal pumps to lower that pressure. “Our alternative solution – which Sulzer has defined as reverse running pump technology – replaces dissipators with a hydraulic power recovery turbine (HPRT) which converts excess pressure to mechanical energy that drives a generator to produce electricity,” Landsberg continues. This concept is not new – converting potential energy into mechanical and electrical energy is often a very cost-effective way of using existing resources to create power. Today many dams are built and used to store water with potential energy that is captured by turbines and generators to create electricity. In many cases, a dam achieves this using a Pelton turbine, but according to Landsberg, Sulzer’s HPRT technology is more effective, cost-friendly and simple to use. All centrifugal pumps, whether they are low or high specific speed, single or multistage, horizontal vertical, can be operated in reverse and used to power a generator. The challenge is selecting the most appropriate design and fine-tuning it to provide an efficient and reliable source of power – and this is further part of the offering Sulzer and its South African subsidiary offer. “And using this technology for deep level mines with high pressure water flow made obvious sense to us and is now a market we are pursuing aggressively,” Landsberg states. Sulzer, a company which prides itself on fluid engineering, is no longer focused only on supplying a pump or supporting piece of technology but is positioning itself as a service provider – understanding clients’ specific needs, engineering products and solutions to meet those needs, and supporting its products post installation as well. Design considerations Sizing turbines for an application requires considerable expertise to ensure the most efficient performance is realised. From the outset, turbines should be sized for ‘normal’ flow and not ‘rated’ flow. By sizing a turbine for the highest available flow and head, i.e. ‘normal’ flow, the turbine will perform optimally for a greater percentage of the time. Testing and efficiency To ensure improved efficiency as a turbine, some pump design changes need to be implemented. While the impeller requires no trimming, the inlet vanes and shrouds are reprofiled. Computational fluid dynamics (CFD) are used in the first instance to optimize the theoretical performance of the turbine. CFD modelling can also be used to compare theoretical performance with the actual test data, confirming the accuracy of the original model and highlighting any changes required. Testing itself requires the performance to be measured using a test loop, which uses a booster pump to simulate the head of water. Water flow and pressure readings along with generator output data are combined to create performance curves and prove the theoretical design results. Just as pumps are sized to deliver specific flow and head requirements, so when they operate as turbines, they can be matched to the prevailing characteristics of the available flow and the static head, which can be hundreds of meters in some situations. Second application on the brink of implementation Together with Sulzer, one of South Africa’s largest gold producers has developed an energy recovery solution that will deliver 700 kW once installed. “The mine was familiar with HPRT technology and commented that it is much simpler and safer to operate and maintain compared with a Pelton turbine,” notes Landsberg. The local service centre in Johannesburg built, tested and installed two reverse running pumps in the mine. The first was a 3-stage HT-HPHX 28-3 pump that powered a 400 kW, 11 kV generator; and the second was a 2-stage version of the same pump, which produced 300 kW. Both systems included all the necessary controls and instrumentation for a turnkey solution. The energy recovery solution uses cooling water with a static head of 350 m to generate 700 kW of power. The system has been running for several years without incident and to the complete satisfaction of the mine. Having achieved a significant reduction in energy bills, there are plans to develop a much larger 4 MW installation. Conclusion Harnessing the potential energy of water can reduce energy costs and provide a favourable return on investment. The choice of equipment is very important in optimizing the performance of the system and costs can be minimized by selecting the most appropriate equipment for the installation. Pelton turbines, although designed solely for the purpose of power generation, generally have a higher cost base and longer lead times for manufacturing. Pumps, on the other hand, are more cost-effective and delivered more quickly. Furthermore, maintenance costs are more favourable, leading to a much faster return on investment. In situations where water with considerable static potential is available, a project to harness this power using a pump as a turbine is the most cost-effective solution. Capital expenditure will be recovered quickly through savings in energy spending and in the long-term, business operating costs will be reduced, improving the bottom line.