Centamin has announced its progress on the ongoing exploration initiatives across it’s prospective portfolio in Egypt and West Africa. The work completed so far this year is said to have successfully identified the potential for satellite open pit ore sources within the Sukari concession and extensions of the Sukari underground orebody, inclusive of high grade Bonanza zones. The underground exploration programme at Sukari continued to support the company’s strategy of delineating the full potential of the underground orebody to deliver both mine life extension and operational expansion. Drilling was completed across all areas of the underground, including at Horus Deeps where drilling intersected the highest-grade mineralisation in that zone to date. Horus Deeps remains open to the north, south and down dip and represents the long-term future of the operation “The team at Sukari continues to deliver excellent results which demonstrate the quality of our portfolio – positive drill results have demonstrated the upside potential in the orebody that can support both life of mine extensions and an increase in underground production . Across the broader concession we identified shallow satellite surface targets,potentially adding growth and operational flexibility to our mine plan, and completed the first airborne geophysical survey in Egypt – a milestone for Centamin and Egypt’s hard rock sector.” CEO Martin Horgen commented. 📣EXPLORATION UPDATE📣The geology team has made excellent progress towards delivering growth and diversification across our assets in both Egypt and Côte d’Ivoire.👀Read the full update here: https://t.co/fFCqDC3Tl6#Exploration #geology #CEY $CEY #growth #diversification pic.twitter.com/nwqL9imOJi With the completion of the orebody re-logging exercise in early 2022 and the development of an integrated geological framework for the Sukari orebody, drilling at the Sukari underground operation continued to test for both resource extension and conversion to support both the growth of the underground reserve base and in turn the undergroundproduction expansion study. Read more about: Centamin pleased with 2021 production The exploration programme has focused on defining targets close to existing infrastructure which can be quickly and cost effectively brought into the mine planning process, while also continuing to test the depth and strike extents (which remain open) that underpin the longer term potential of the underground mine and the mine expansion plan.The current drill programme also focused on the further delineation of the high-grade Bonanza zones as announced in December 2021 which have the potential to host low tonnage / high grade targets. Notable drill results include: Horus Deeps – 54m at 15.1g/t Au, including 3.8m at 161g/t Au and 2.15m at 44.84g/t AuPtah – 23m at 7.2g/t Au, including 2m at 14.29g/t Au and 6m at 17.72g/t AuAmun – 17m at 9.6g/t Au, including 1m at 136g/t AuAmun – 8.5m at 7.6g/t Au, including 1m at 52.8g/t Au The Bast area between Ptah and Amun continues to return high grade underground zones of Bonanza style mineralisation. Drilling in this area, demonstrates a consistent geological host within 100m of existing infrastructure which could improve underground operational flexibility through the development of a new high-grade mining area in the near-term. Work continues towards delivery of the Doropo pre-feasibility study by the end of 2022. Drilling has been completed and was focused on converting a significant proportion of the Inferred Resource to the Indicated Resource category, and on exploring newly identified areas of mineralisation which have the potential to deliver further resource growth. “We also made excellent progress across our organic pipeline of projects that offer growth and diversification. “The Pre-feasibility Study at Doropo progressed well with drilling focused on both converting existing Inferred Resources to Indicated Resources and testing newly identified growth targets. During Q2, field work commenced in our highly prospective Eastern Desert exploration licences. With over 20 years of operating history in Egypt, Centamin isuniquely positioned to deliver the significant potential of the licences in the most cost-effective way,” concluded Horgan.