Heritage forms an integral part of a country’s identity. With a rich history that spans over 1 000 years, South Africa’s heritage is one worth preserving. Owing to its legal and moral obligation to preserve, protect, manage and care for heritage resources within areas in which it mines, Sibanye-Stillwater has recently launched a dedicated heritage management initiative that creates an awareness of sites to avoid in South Africa and the USA. Long before the Mining Charter and ESG talks took center stage, communities throughout South Africa struggled to defend their rights to their land, heritage, and resources when faced with mining in their area. Although mining companies promise jobs and development, preserving sites such as stone age sites, iron age sites, graves, structures, and homesteads should remain a priority. In the process of ensuring that no identified heritage site is impacted on by any mining or related activities, Sibanye-Stillwater has devised a comprehensive heritage resources inventory for all its operations and the heritage sites have been mapped and loaded onto aGeographic Information (GIS) System. The identified heritage sites form part of the company’s mining master plans to ensure that they are avoided. Sibanye-Stillwater’s operations has an array of rich and diverse heritages with some 851 heritage sites identified to date across our SA operations (783 sites) and USoperations (68 sites), respectively. The sites include stone age sites, iron age sites, graves, structures and homesteads more than 60 years old (remains of the recent past), historical relics, and natural heritage sites. The South African gold operations comprise the Kloof, Driefontein, Beatrix, Cooke and the Burnstone operations, located in different geographical and geological regions in South Africa. “In order to conserve, minimise risk and slow down the rate of deterioration as well as to show honour and respect, we maintain graves and graveyards as part of our operational maintenance programmes. This is also a legal requirement of our operational Environmental Management Programmes (EMP’s) and has to be fulfilled as part of legal obligations. Our maintenance plans are currently being reviewed and aligned with the legal and strategic requirements as it pertains to heritage resource management.” Sibanye subscribes to key frameworks and principles from mining regulators such as the World Gold Council (WGC), International Council on Mining & Metals (ICMM) and the United Nations Global Impact (UNGC). Marikana cemetery clean-up Having suffered an immeasurable loss to a mining massacre in 2016, the community of Marikana still live with open wounds. Although the incident can not be undone, pledging to conserve the community’s heritage warrants to be met with appreciation. In Marikana, Sibanye has introduced a clean up campaign of several of on-site cemeteries in 2021, and the clean-up continues during 2022.The demarcation of heritage resources and the clearing of vegetation at the Kroondal and Rustenburg SA Platinum Group Metals(PGM) operations are undertaken in accordance with the Operational Maintenance Plan. Sibanye has emphasised the importance for all its members to understand the context of preserving heritage sites. “This is an on-going awareness campaign on heritage and heritage resources management, delivered to specific internal target audiences, to raise the level of awareness on heritage issues within the Group. It includes amongst others, what constitutes heritage resources both externally and within the Sibanye-Stillwater context, and the management programmes and procedures in place to deal with heritage resources impacts and aspects. The target audiences include amongst others the operational environmental compliance, engineering and property teams, that is, those teams responsible for and involved with on-site heritage management,” reads Sibanye’s Management Action Plan. In a mining ear that chooses to focus on profits, Sibanye-Stillwater has shown an effort to not only preserve a heritage, but an identity for future generations.