Atlantic Lithium (the funded Africa-focused lithium exploration and development company targeting to deliver Ghana’s first lithium mine) has announced its intention to pursue a listing on the official list of the Australian Securities Exchange (“ASX”). Canaccord Genuity (Australia) has been appointed as Lead Manager to the ASX listing process. Atlantic’s board believes that an ASX listing reflects the global demand for a sustainable supply of lithium to facilitate the transition to a lower carbon future and will Bring the Company’s Ewoyaa Project and Cape Coast Lithium Portfolio to the attention of a robust resources market where lithium exploration companies have in recent times attracted significant investor interest.Admission to the ASX will further extend Atlantic Lithium’s shareholder base, enable wider trading of Atlantic Lithium shares and provide greater liquidity for Atlantic Lithium shares. An ASX listing will also allow existing Australian investors the opportunity to reposition securities held in the UK to Australia, should they so desire. As an Australian company with its headquarters in Australia, an ASX listing enables close communication with Australian investors. “We are delighted to announce the Company’s intention to list its shares on the ASX. Further to its listing on AIM, the listing of Atlantic Lithium shares in Australia will broaden the company’s shareholder base and extend the company’s presence globally. We hope that Admission on ASX provides a new platform from which we can raise awareness further of the Company’s industry-leading Ewoyaa Lithium Project at a time when demand for lithiumcontinues to soar.“The ASX market has seen a growing interest in green commodities of late, in line with the global transition to a lower carbon future, and we have seen the valuations of many companies involved in the lithium supply chain benefit as a result. We feel that listing on the ASX is timely, therefore, to enable a more favourable valuation of the company and its assets.” , commented Neil Herbert, Chairman of Atlantic Lithium. To list on the ASX, the company will be required to demonstrate that it will have sufficient shareholders to establish and maintain a market on ASX, this being at least 300 non-affiliated shareholders each of which have a shareholding of at least AUD$2,000 in value.Atlantic says that it is hoping, subject to meeting ASX admission requirements, to finalise its ASX listing in Q3 2022. There is no guarantee, however, that Atlantic Lithium will be admitted to the official list of the ASX.