The organisation All Rise, which describes itself as “Attorneys for climate and environmental justice” has issued an undated statement, seemingly this week, entitled “Tendele’s wheels come off again”. The statement relates to a public participation process in respect of an Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) currently being conducted. The public participation process relating to an appeal that is currently before the Minister of Mineral Resources and Energy commenced on 1 July 2022, where notifications were delivered to directly impacted community members, advising these community members of the process being undertaken by Tendele and inviting them to participate in the process. READ MORE ARTICLES ABOUT ESG Notification has also been given to interested and affected parties (I&APs) and the general public via sms, radio and newspaper advertisements and site notices placed at various locations in the community. Firstly, the statement says that the Environmental Assessment Practitioner (EAP) appointed to oversee the EIA process, Christopher Wright, has “effectively (put) the traditional leadership in charge of conducting the consultation process in the community”. This is entirely incorrect. It is true that traditional leadership structures are among several people and groups requested by Wright to ensure that I&APs are notified of the process and are invited to participate in the process. Traditional leadership structures play an important role in communities in KwaZulu-Natal. The customs of this community must be respected. It would be a serious oversight and would be highly irregular if the traditional leaderships’ communication practices and structures were not used as one of the means of ensuring that word of the process is spread as widely as possible. Again, this is in line with the customs of the community and ensures effective consultation. It is nonsensical to suggest that their assistance in simply handing out notification letters within their communities has put them “in charge of conducting the consultation process in the community. Second, the statement says that “the EAP has determined that only people living within 1 km of each of the mining pits need to be notified.” Again, this is wholly incorrect. Actual and potential I&APs have been notified via hand delivered notice, email, sms, radio and newspaper advertisements and site notices regarding the process as per the EIA Regulations. Those closest to the site must receive written notice as per the prescribed requirements of the EIA Regulations and thus this was done for all residing within a 1 km radius of each of the three pits as well as all within the three mining areas. Third, the statement says that “people are being given mixed messages by the traditional authority disseminating information and arranging meetings.” Again, this is incorrect. The traditional authority is not arranging meetings. The traditional authority simply assisted with handing out notices and BIDs to community members. This was done to ensure customary law protocols are observed. Notices were handed out by several people including the Izinduna Counsellors and normal community members that reside in the area. All public meetings will be held and run by the appointed EAP, Wright. All community members are invited to attend the public meetings (including All Rise and its clients). It is also worth mentioning that All Rise received the notice and BID on 1 July 2022. Fourth. the statement says that “a total of 602 families, approximately 6 000 people, (who) will have to give up their homes, fields and livelihoods and go through the painful process of exhuming the graves of their loved ones and relocating to make way for Tendele’s operations.” Again, this is totally untrue and such a false assertion is likely to cause confusion and panic within the community. All Rise has made no effort to clarify these facts with the EAP before proceeding with a widely published press statement. The 602 families referred to are simply the families who reside within a 1km radius of each of the pits or in the mining license area and who were to receive written notification. This number was in fact a preliminary number that was used by the EAP in preliminary private planning documentation. The actual number of families residing within a 1 km radius of each of the pits and or in the mining license area is slightly more. These families that are I&APs should not be confused with the 143 families who are required to be relocated in the Emalahleni and Ophondweni areas. Tendele has been engaging with these families since as early as 2017. 133 of the families have signed detailed agreements and have agreed to the terms of relocation, which includes compensation in line with or better than the terms of the International Finance Corporation (IFC) resettlement guidelines on these matters. The IFC guidelines are widely recognised as the benchmark for undertaking such processes. Efforts continue to reach agreement with the remaining 10 families. Fifth, the All Rise statement refers to letters written to the EAP about fears allegedly caused by the traditional leaders. Wright has confirmed that he has responded to this letter and will offer solutions including separate consultative meetings with anyone represented by All Rise. All efforts will and are being made to accommodate All Rise clients. Finally, as Tendele has done previously, as has various community representatives, we invite the All Rise personnel and their funders, that include the Raith Foundation, to account to the community for All Rise’s efforts to have a mine closed that has provided a livelihoods to some 20,000 people in a poverty stricken area where the average household income for 72% of the families is less than R2,000. Tendele Mine is by far the largest source of economic activity in the region. Its continued operations are supported by many community members, the Mathuba Municipality, the Traditional Council and by the four representative unions, AMCU, NUM, FAHUSA and Solidarity. As it is, most of the 1,600 employees have had to be entrenched as the mine’s reserves have been exhausted, and only the extension of the mining right to the new area applied for can make it possible for the mine to reopen and the retrenched employees to be re-employed. Tendele accepts and is in the process of implementing the court order that a new EIA be carried out. We invite All Rise not unduly to obstruct the EIA and the mine’s extension, and its ability to operate for another 10 years should the EIA be successfully concluded. Failing that, as stated, they and their funders are invited to account to the 220,000 community members, including the retrenched employees, about their efforts to further impoverish the community.