Newcore Gold has closed its previously announced bought deal public offering. The company states that intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to fund exploration and development expenditures on its Enchi Gold Project in southwest Ghana as well as for working capital and general corporate purposes. The company issued 16,700,000 common shares at a price of $0.30 per share foraggregate gross proceeds to the Company of approximately $5.0 million. Post the offering the Company has 138.1 million shares issued and outstanding, with Management and the Board of Directors owning a 24% equity interest. “We are delighted to be welcoming a new institutional investor and would also like to thank our existing shareholders for their continued support. Select insiders also participated in the financing, with Management and the Board of Directors continuing to be strongly aligned with shareholders by way of an approximate 24% equity ownership post financing. This funding allows Newcore to continue to advance our Enchi Gold Project on the back of a successful 90,000 metre drill program that has outlined not only potential resource growth at existing deposits, along strike and at depth, but also identified new discoveries from first pass drilling on early-stage targets, highlighting the district scale potential of the property. Newcore continues to be well positioned to continue to unlock the value of the Enchi Gold Project through the drill bit.” commented Luke Alexander, President and CEO of Newcore. Related: Newcore Gold makes two new greenfield discoveries at Enchi Certain directors and management of the company purchased an aggregate of 283,327 Shares pursuant to the offering. The offering was led by Stifel GMP as lead underwriter and sole bookrunner on behalf of a syndicate of underwriters that included Cormark Securities Inc., Canaccord Genuity Corp., Haywood Securities Inc., Raymond James Ltd., and Sprott Capital Partners LP . Our Chairman Doug Forster, our President & CEO @LukeNCAU and our VP Corporate Development & IR @malkarwowska added to their $NCAU.V positions. Thank you for the support!Details 👇: pic.twitter.com/mX9yd1kI7t In connection with the offering, the underwriters received a cash commission of 6% of the gross proceeds of the offering, reduced to 3% for proceeds raised from sales to one institutional investor which accounted for gross proceeds of approximately $1.75 million. The shares issued under the offering were offered by way of a prospectus supplement to the company’s base shelf prospectus dated March 9, 2021. The Prospectus Supplement was filed in in each of the provinces and territories of Canada, excluding Québec.