Pan African has completed a DFS on the Mogale Gold Tailings Storage Facilities (“TSFs”) that forms part of the Mintails Mining SA (Mintails SA) assets, situated near Krugersdorp to the west of Johannesburg, South Africa. The DFS was prepared by DRA Projects SA , with reliance on specialist input from third parties for Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve estimation, dump re-mining, tailings pumping and disposal and metallurgical test work. The Project has the potential to increase the Group’s gold production profile over thecoming years, with re-mining of the Mogale Gold TSFs expected to add approximately50koz/yr of production over its 13-year life of mine (LOM),Equivalent to an increase >25% on Group’s currentproduction. Pan African study highlights Mogale Gold's fast payback, low costs, output uplift, ungeared return https://t.co/nn5LKY2Jg7 “Pan African has an excellent track record of successfully commissioning and operating surface tailings retreatment operations, as evidenced by our BTRP, ETRP and Elikhulu operations. As originally anticipated, the Mogale Gold DFS has demonstrated a compellingProject, both operationally and financially. Mintails has the potential to further improve the Group’s overall AISC, while increased annual production will move Pan African further up the ranks of mid-tier gold producers.“Additionally, our re-mining activities will assist with environmental remediation in this area. We look forward to working with all stakeholders to further progress the Project in the months ahead.” Cobus Loots, CEO of Pan African, commented The Mogale Gold TSFs, which comprises of various individual dams, contain a ProbableMineral Reserve of 123.6Mt of re-mineable material at a head grade of 0.29g/t for an estimated content of 1.14Moz gold. In addition, Mintails SA’s Soweto Cluster resource is said to have the potential to extend LOM from 13 years to 21 years and further increase annual gold production. The compelling project economics reveal that the expected Pre-tax NPV (at 9.5% real discount rate) is ZAR1,006 million (US$64,9 million), with real ungeared IRR of 20.1% at US$1,750/oz and US$/ZAR:15.50. The Construction capex is valued at R2.5billion (US$161.3 million at US$/ZAR:15.50) with Construction capital payback estimated within 3.5 years, post commissioning. The company says that is is targeting production within 18-24 months from the commencement of the construction and has received a number of offers from financing institutions and third party financiers for the project funding and expects to finalise the funding package later this year, if the company was to proceed to project execution. Read more about :Pan African Resources commissions 10 MW solar photovoltaic plant In November 2020, Pan African announced that the company had entered into conditional sale of shares agreements to acquire the share capital and associated shareholder loans and other claims of Mogale Gold and Mintails’ SA Soweto Cluster Proprietary Limited (“MSC”) (together the “Mintails Transaction”). Both Mogale Gold and MSC are 100% owned by Mintails SA, which was placed into provisional liquidation during 2018 As part of the DFS, the company has already conducted extensive engagements with community representatives and other interested and affected organisations based in the area, including regulatory authorities. This information and the EMPR is being utilised to compile an action plan to remediate past environmental damage and restore the surface for productive land use, while at the same time investigating impactful socio-economic development projects intended to stimulate the local economy. The company will also conduct feasibility studies into the merits of renewable energy for the new tailings retreatment plant’s energy requirements.