The underground mining ecosystem has changed substantially over the last two decades – supporting the need for improved training mechanisms. Today’s mines require fully competent operators that understand how to use modern equipment and of equal importance have a better appreciation of the risks associated with their operating environment, Murray & Roberts Cementation’s education, training and development executive TONY PRETORIUS tells LAURA CORNISH. The training environment has undergone significant change over the last 10 years – which can be described as evolutionary in nature. “Every new element introduced into the training world has built on the mechanisms already in place and collectively are truly designed to deliver on the mining industry’s need for safety conscious personnel,” Pretorius starts. Pretorius is a true training expert, having worked at Murray & Robert Cementation’s Training Academy (MRTA) near Carletonville for just over 14 years. Reflecting on a decade of change, Pretorius remembers how training was little more than lecture-type sessions with white boards and overhead projectors. “One of the aspects that saw our approach evolve was a better appreciation for understanding how people learn. Cognitive overload was determined unreliable; in fact, most people only retain about 7% of what they are taught in this environment.” A practical approach was introduced which saw the concept of e-learning, a slightly more advanced and education friendly tool which provides basic foundational competence – but today is viewed as only the starting point for training. “Two and three-dimensional interactive simulation was consequently introduced and combined with e-learning, provided some degree of capability by putting theory into practice. This still presented many restrictions because it didn’t allow for consequential thinking and reflexive competence in being prepared for a fall of ground situation or a mechanism failure for example,” Pretorius outlines. This led to the rise of simulation and animation, again significant enhancements to the learning environment but again introducing new skills deficits. “These new tools didn’t make people believe because they didn’t give rise to that human fear factor,” he continues. “And this reality has led to the greatest evolutionary skills training changes.” The last few years have seen the establishment of immersive environments which allow you to experience those ‘what if’ scenarios in a fully immersed experience, building appreciation and reality into individuals. Virtual environments are the next step companies are looking at, but because they are expensive, these should typically be designed around mine-specific risk profiles. Muscle memory however is still an important learning requirement so these scenarios must be accompanied by machine simulators to reinforce operating requirements. As a last necessity in the entire process, learners should be afforded the opportunity to gain real underground experience with a subject matter expert who can provide on-site coaching in an unpressurised timeframe – this is commonly known as workplace integrated learning. “Upon completion of this step, an individual can be certified competent and production-fit to a standard that mines can rely on to build towards their Zero Harm objectives,” Pretorius states. Today’s successful trainers have learnt to incorporate all these elements outlined into a single, more comprehensive training programme – appreciating that there is science behind these processes that showcase not only a basic training but also the proper education, training and development of every individual. Are we headed for zero harm? For companies who are following extensive training processes as outlined, they are headed in the right direction, but Pretorius still doesn’t believe this is enough. “Most mining companies are investing in great safety training technologies, but they don’t necessarily know how to implement these technologies to get the desired return on investment. “Training should also not be considered the silver bullet that will deliver zero harm. It is one of a three-prong approach needing to be executed. The second and third prong includes leadership: passionate leadership committed to driving the ideal cultures within a business, and providing the systems and processes needed to run the performance of a mine effectively. You can hold an individual accountable for their actions, but if you are missing ingredients from either one of those second and third prongs, you can have the best training solutions in the world but will still not get the desired effect,” Pretorius emphasises. Murray & Roberts Cementation introduces its Extended Reality (XR) Framework – putting the above into practice As a recognised training expert in the field, Murray & Roberts Cementation has introduced a bespoke framework designed to accelerate the learning pathway – incorporating all elements of training that have been introduced to deliver an effective training solution. “Our approach here starts with the use of a paperless training management system allowing the retrieval of real-time data from our various learning platforms. This produces electronic portfolios of evidence for learners as and when they progress within our structured learning environment. And our approach follows a situational leadership pathway to verify foundational, reflexive, practical and applied competence,” Pretorius explains. The methodology includes computer-based training which is deployed in an online e-learning or classroom environment using response clickers as well as models, virtual reality, interactive touch screens, simulations and workshop and mock related training – all before learners are introduced into the workplace integrated learning space. Online learning means learners can access content anywhere and at any time. These courses ensure consistent and standardised training, every time. Traditional OEM manuals, as well as procedural and standards documents, are blended with contextual graphics, animations, video and photographs. Narration is also used, where needed, to further enhance linear content flow. “Many of our multimedia elements are shot at our training academy mock-ups, and used to augment the text content, and importantly, to be a bridge between the theoretical and practical elements in our mock-ups. Our approach means learners who must complete practical elements are at ease, as they have come out of the theory component with a good understanding of what they will experience on the practical side.” The next step in the Framework incorporates advanced virtual reality technology. The academy offers a series of VR modules for mechanised supervisors, operators and engineering support services designed by its strategic business partners, STS. “Our resources include 2D and 3D interactive touchscreens which are deployed, for instance, in supervisor training on areas such as strata control programmes, ventilation and gases, cycle planning for shift bosses and emergency response planning. “We enable facilitators to immerse learners in the content through this interaction, allowing learners to interact with content, draw, plan and play together, becoming engaged. In this space facilitators can demonstrate 2D and 3D content showing angles never seen before, making obscure ideas visual and easy to understand. “We bring these concepts into the VR immersive environment, with modules such as entry examination and safe declaration, advanced survey and marking of the blast face. We also use VR to familiarize supervisors with basic engineering aspects of mechanised equipment. “For operators, we use VR applications to teach them to identify components from the various suites of equipment and perform comprehensive pre-trip inspections in this interactive space. “In the engineering space, we deploy split circuits for various schematics such as drilling and drivetrain, steering and brakes. This allows us to ‘hide’ the machine to expose the circuit, and even start up the system to observe hydraulic flow. This enhances the training of apprentices in fault diagnosis and troubleshooting. The academy’s 2D and 3D VR blast wall interactive platform, which has been employed for some time now, teaches learner miners to mark off rounds, using either conventional methods or laser technology. It also allows them to time the round according to their blast design, facilitating understanding of the importance of sequential firing. Simulation forms another component of the Framework – cybermine simulators are used to train operators in three primary areas of proficiency – health and safety, machine appreciation and productivity enhancement. Using simulators, learners are coached by experienced operators in a safe, cost-effective and low-risk environment. This makes it much easier for trainers to identify areas of concern and ‘engineer out’ any bad habits learners might display. Instructors can respond immediately as learning takes place, reinforcing the required techniques and behaviours for safe production. Murray & Roberts Cementation has further invested in an STS VR drill rig simulator which provides learners with a sense of realism of ‘being on a rig at the rock face’ and takes operator drilling efficiencies to a higher level. In this environment, operators can examine the drilling space in 360°, navigate around the machine, index for drill accuracy, correctly set feed pressure, collar, measure drill yaw and pitch, hole depth, and time taken per hole as well as the time taken to manipulate boom sequences – while hydraulic physics provides a real time display of the force exerted on the boom, drifter and rod. “Our simulator also allows learners to feel the force that each piston takes during operation and even the ‘jiggle’ on the drill arms. This allows the operator to learn tricks of the trade and see how the drill rod bends and breaks when the operator applies too much force. The small footprint and mobile capability of this simulator allows it to be set up easily at any remote operation.” Of course, the academy also offers an advanced mock-up environment which offers major advantages for learners where they can apply the theory and skills learnt and prove their machine operation capability in a low-risk environment. “Providing realistic environments, our mockups are equipped with a wide range of mechanised machines, allowing practical training across primary and secondary mechanised operations,” Pretorius notes. Learners are assessed in terms of their capability in the mock environment before they are released and authorised to enter the workplace and gain experience in the production environment, where their competence is evaluated and certified by a qualified assessor. “Because we understand and see the merits of augmented reality training, we are also currently exploring these solutions to provide remote workplace integrated coaching and assessments from a central control centre environment at the MRTA. This initiative will reduce the associated cost of deploying assessors to remote sites to provide the service and will allow for personal interaction with learners in the workplace where coaching and assessment practices can be better applied,” Pretorius concludes.