Jubilee Metals has released an update of its progress at its  Zambian operations where the integration of the Sable Copper and Cobalt refinery with the newly constructed copper concentrator, Project Roan, continues as part of Jubilee’s Southern Refining Strategy. Jubilee’s copper strategy in Zambia includes, as its first phase, the implementation of its Southern Refining Strategy which targets to produce up to 12 000 tonnes of copper units per annum including a cobalt by-product from certain cobalt containing feed streams. The strategy integrates the upgraded Sable Refinery with Project Roan, a new copper concentrator processing both Run-Of-Mine copper ore as well as tailings to produce copper concentrates for refining at Sable (10 000 tonnes per annum), which complements the existing supply of third-party feed to Sable refinery (2 000 tonnes per annum). The integrated Southern Refining Strategy’s capital allocation is c. £19 million (ZAR 378 million). Commercial copper and cobalt production at Sable is targeted to commence during August 2022 and ramp up is progressing at the Project Roan concentrator, expected to reach design capacities by the end of July 2022.https://t.co/MHhj9jgLyh Video of Roan high-grade concentrate ⬇️ pic.twitter.com/f2eqwBhVJL “Reaching these significant milestones announced today put us in great stead for the financial year ahead, and beyond. It is testament to all the hard work by the Jubileeteam that over the past 12 months have delivered on a bold implementation plan across both the PGM and chrome operations in South Africa and the copper and cobalt operations in Zambia.“During this period in South Africa we delivered a new and upgraded Inyoni PGM facility to reach 45 000 PGM ounces per annum which includes a newly constructed and fully integrated 80 000 tonnes per month chrome beneficiation circuit. The circuit was further complimented with the inclusion of Jubilee’s renowned ultra-fine chrome circuit earlier this year” stated CEO Leon Coetzer. Read more articles about: Jubilee Metals acquires more PGM material in the Eastern Limb Crucially, and in line with Jubilee’s goals to promote sustained, inclusive economic growth, the Southern Refining Strategy has resulted in significant job creation, with total jobs filled in Zambia reaching over 700 during the last 12 months. Jubilee has prioritised sourcing of skills and services from its local communities and has in many instances partnered with local firms to assist in their growth and development to offer a sustained service to its projects.