Zululand Anthracite Colliery (ZAC) is the sole producer of prime anthracite in South Africa. In fact, ZAC is a ‘one stop shop’ for anthracite and has all the facilities to size and blend products according to market needs. Soon, it will increase output when its new Mngeni Shaft begins operating later this year. Located in Emakhalathini, about 100 km from Richards Bay in Northern KwaZulu-Natal, ZAC’s unique high qualities are the highest-ranking, lowest ash and lowest volatile anthracite produced in South Africa. The high quality attributed to each product from ZAC places it in a unique and favoured position as a supplier of reductants to the metallurgical industry. It is the preferred supplier to key industrial clients in the South African and international markets. General manager Wayne Rowe adds, “Our location, being close to Richards Bay, positions us well for both exports and to supply the local South African markets. 70% is for domestic smelter operations and 30% is destined for export.” Mngeni Shaft is located about 27 km north-east of Ulundi, 7 km from the current ZAC processing plant, near Masokaneni community. With a resource of 1.2 Mt, the project has an anticipated life of mine of 2.5 years and will produce between 180 tpa and 240 tpa of anthracite. Rowe explains that the mining process will comprise shaft sinking and mine entrance creation using articulated dump trucks and excavators to a depth of 35 m, and then drill and blast operations using battery scoops and coal cutters. The operation will, for the most part, be powered by the grid and ZAC has backup generators when there are power outages. A caring colliery The company is committed to ensuring that it mines in a safe manner. “ZAC has an excellent track record when it comes to safety due to having competent people and conducting regular risk assessments. The same safety procedures will be implemented with the commission on Mngeni Shaft. “ZAC as of 30 September 2021 recorded over 5 000 fatality-free production shifts. Mine safety is ZAC’s top priority. Safeguarding our employees and contractors to ensure they return home safe and healthy every day is essential to achieving Zero Harm,” states Rowe. Around 200 people will be employed once Mngeni is fully operational. Providing employment opportunities is part of ZAC’s commitment to create meaningful societal value in the communities in which it operates, through the positive social and economic benefits generated by its operations. “We are committed to working locally to improve the social, economic, and environmental wellbeing of the community in which we operate. “We give priority to employing local people and purchasing local goods and services by integrating them into our supply chains, wherever possible,” concludes Rowe.