The mining industry is naturally competitive. But building trust in ‘brand mining’ can’t be done alone. Every miner is responsible for improving the trust that it builds with stakeholders and strengthening mining’s social licence to operate. As leaders, the Top 40 play a crucial role. In all industries, the ESG revolution is upon us. Miners will see tangible business benefits by re-orientating operations around a value proposition that puts people and planet alongside profit. As miners work to provide the minerals to achieve a net-zero future, the societal impact on communities and the broader ecosystem of stakeholders must be front of mind. Looking at the year ahead, we see key areas where miners should be focusing their attention. Upping accountability on ESG ESG presents both risks and opportunities for the Top 40. Governments and regulators are sending clear signals that they will hold companies accountable to operate in more sustainable and ethical ways. The EU is leading the charge with its supply chain scrutiny, but it’s not the only jurisdiction taking a firmer posture towards ESG. In 2021, the US Securities and Exchange Commission released a risk alert focusing on ‘greenwashing.’ The same year, a major Chinese regulatory agency declared its intention to enforce improved sustainability reporting. Japan, Malaysia, India, Singapore, and the UK have also made moves towards demanding more transparency and action on ESG from companies. This increasing pressure provides an opportunity for the Top 40 to position themselves as the global suppliers of choice for ethically and sustainably sourced materials, particularly those destined to power batteries, solar panels, wind turbines and other technologies. Many mining leaders are responding positively to the challenge. Rio Tinto is producing carbon-free aluminium and selling it to Apple to use in its product manufacturing. BHP is supplying nickel sulphate to Toyota and Panasonic to make low-carbon batteries as part of a green EV ecosystem. These initiatives demonstrate that miners and off-takers often need to work together to address the rising ESG expectations from governments and other stakeholders such as employees, local communities, and customers. Trust is a critical material In the era of critical minerals, maintaining a robust social licence to operate is more essential than ever for success. The demand for critical minerals is outstripping supply in the near term. To meet this shortfall, miners will have to develop more mines, often in previously unmined regions. As they seek to expand, miners will need to put even more effort into meeting community expectations and building trust. In January 2022, the Serbian Government revoked Rio Tinto’s operating permits for the group’s US$2.4 billion Jadar lithium project in response to environmental protests. The decision eliminated almost one-third of future European lithium production. In the US, Lithium Americas Corp.’s Thacker Pass project has been subjected to legal challenges by environmental groups, and Ioneer Ltd.’s Rhyolite Ridge mine has been weighed down by extended environmental reviews and regulatory disputes. In central Africa, cobalt miners are under pressure to uphold community expectations on worker rights and child labour. These serious matters are a priority that demands miners’ attention. Strengthening social licence starts with forming genuine partnerships that truly respect and benefit local communities and the rights of indigenous peoples. The miners of the future are community-centred and focused on providing skills, decent jobs, worker protection, social and economic development, and inclusion and fairness. RELATED:A critical time for miners says PwC’s Mine 2022 reportFinancial analysis: Positioning mining for the futurePwC Mine 2022: Mergers and acquisitions – change is in the air Environmental stewardship—responsibly addressing biodiversity conservation, tailings management, water quality and mine closure—is of paramount importance to a miner’s legacy. Rightly or wrongly, whole industries are often judged by a few bad projects or companies. Every miner has a role in improving mining’s social licence. Achieving net zero Pursuing net-zero targets poses a series of choices to miners. They can divest, decommission, reduce emissions in existing operations or offset assets that produce high greenhouse-gas (GHG) emissions. Many of the Top 40 have publicly committed to net-zero targets by offsetting current emissions either through purchasing carbon offsets or investing in solutions that mitigate climate change. Divesting assets will decrease a miner’s GHG emissions on a standalone basis. But in many ways, this move simply makes the emissions somebody else’s challenge. The transfer of assets to third parties increases the risk that those assets may not be decommissioned in a timely or appropriate manner and will continue to contribute to GHG emissions far into the future. Industry surveys conducted by the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) indicate that nearly 20% of operating mines are likely to close in the decade ahead. This poses challenges not only for mining companies but also for communities and governments on whose land they operate. To manage closures and decommissioning sustainably, miners will need to collaborate with stakeholders on financing, post-mining land-use goals, and transitional support for employees and communities. This is a significant opportunity for miners to establish trust and move the needle on net-zero ambitions. Tax governance momentum Tax collection continues to be a clear priority for governments, particularly with the need to fund fiscal deficits that were required to mitigate the impact of the pandemic. Inevitably, stakeholders will be keeping a close eye on how miners, particularly the Top 40, respond to this growing scrutiny. Miners must continue to prioritise tax transparency and governance as a key focus within the business. We have previously emphasised the need for miners to seize the opportunity to ensure that they tell their own story about paying their fair share of tax rather than letting others tell it for them. According to PwC’s 25th Annual Global CEO Survey, 48% of mining and metals CEOs moderately to strongly agreed that they effectively communicate to the public all taxes paid. That percentage compares favourably to the general global industry result of 33%. Barrick Gold Corp. released its first standalone tax-contribution report in April 2022 as an essential component of its annual reporting. In December 2021, the ICMM reaffirmed its commitment to tax transparency and further strengthened existing requirements regarding tax-transparency reports. (More than 50% of the ICCM’s members are part of the Top 40.) Miners have momentum in leading tax-transparency efforts, but there’s no time to rest. Over the past year, governments have doubled down on their commitment to ensuring that companies pay their fair share of tax. The OECD continues to advance its Pillar 1 (reallocation of taxing rights) and Pillar 2 (global minimum tax) solutions, with countries moving to implement the international tax reforms at a brisk pace. The OECD estimates that Pillar 1 will reallocate US$125 billion of annual profits and that Pillar 2 will increase annual tax revenues by US$150 billion globally. There are proposed exclusions for extractive businesses with respect to Pillar 1. However, we expect that Pillar 2 will affect most, if not all, of the Top 40. The OECD has set a target date of 2023 for the implementation of Pillar 2. The OECD’s preliminary technical guidance on the rules signals a significant degree of complexity in data gathering, administration and compliance. This is a reminder that the Top 40 should make it a priority to review the impact that these rules will have on their business and the formidable effort required to meet the many compliance requirements. Domestically, governments are developing more comprehensive and sophisticated tax regimes. Chile is seeking to introduce new mining royalties, and Peru is pursuing tax reform to increase taxes on miners. In the US, the state of Nevada recently enacted a new excise tax to fund education, which would double the taxes paid by gold and silver companies. Miners must take note of tax reform not only at the international level but in each jurisdiction where they operate, and they must ensure that they stay compliant. Making ESG work for mining Being part of an ethical supply chain, protecting the environment and dealing fairly with communities can help miners win new business and create a premium for their products. In 2021, S&P Global began publishing a ‘green aluminium’ pricing index, showing that customers are willing to pay an extra US$10–$15 per tonne for aluminium made sustainably. These kinds of green premiums will only continue to grow as consumers become more discerning about supply chains and provenance. ESG performance also affects the cost of capital. Increasingly, banks and investors are cutting ties with projects that are viewed as unsustainable or unethical. On the other hand, ESG friendly companies can often access cheaper capital through mechanisms such as green bonds or sustainability-linked loans. ESG is more than ticking boxes. It’s about recognising the transformation taking place in capital, enterprise, and society. ESG, like critical minerals, can be a strategic lever that helps miners align themselves within this transformation. ESG should be considered at the heart of what a miner is; this will lead to sustained outcomes that drive value and growth while strengthening our environment and societies. Read the full report here