Resolute Mining has announced that the economic and financial sanctions imposed on Mali by ECOWAS (Economic Community of West African States) on 9 January 2022 were lifted on 3 July 2022.The ECOWAS decision was made after Mali’s interim government proposed a 24-month transition to democracy and published a new electoral law. Mali underwent coups in August 2020 and May 2021, followed by Guinea in September 2021 and Burkina Faso this January. Fearing contagion in a region known for military takeovers, ECOWAS imposed tough trade and economic sanctions againstMali, but lesser punishments against Guinea and Burkina. “After discussion, the heads of state took a firm first decision to lift the economic and financial sanctions,” ECOWAS Commission President Jean-Claude Kassi Brou told reporters. Brou said that ECOWAS will continue to maintain the suspension of Mali from the ECOWAS decision-making bodies and the individual sanctions against individuals and groups. Final Communique Summit July 2022… https://t.co/c1hhVajzSj pic.twitter.com/i8nF980rCu The following sanctions were lifted:• The closure of the land and air borders between ECOWAS Member Statesand Mali;• The suspension of all commercial and financial transactions betweenECOWAS Member States and Mali;• The freezing of the assets of the Republic of Mali domiciled in the CentralBanks and Commercial Banks of all ECOWAS Member States;• The freezing of the assets of public and parastatal enterprises of theRepublic of Mali domiciled in commercial banks of all ECOWAS MemberStates;• The suspension of all financial assistance and transactions in favour ofMali by ECOWAS Financial Institutions, particularly EBID and BOAD. Related: Mali’s roadmap for peace has laudable goals: but it doesn’t go far enough The decision also demands no military junta member run as a candidate in Mali’s future presidential election, according to one ECOWAS delegate. ECOWAS in January had imposed a trade and financial embargo on Mali after its military government unveiled a scheme to rule for five years. The sanctions have badly hit the poor, landlocked Sahel state, whose economy is already under severe strain from a decade-long jihadist insurgency. After months of talks, Malian authorities  approved a plan to hold presidential elections in February 2024. The vote will be preceded by a referendum on a revised constitution in March 2023 and legislative elections in late 2023. Source: France24