Eurasian Resources has released its Clean Cobalt & Copper Performance Report, detailing the Group’s progress in relation to its Clean Cobalt & Copper Framework, which implements the globally recognised supply chain guidance of the OECD but also goes further in leading the industry towards sustainable value chains. The Framework comprising of seven goals was first introduced in 2019 as the Clean Cobalt Framework and was extended to include copper in 2021. It aims to deliver high levels of responsible cobalt and copper production, value chain assurance, and improved living conditions for local communities. The set goals are:• Clean cobalt and copper are sourced without child labour• Clean cobalt and copper are traceable• Clean cobalt and copper are not sourced from artisanal and small-scale mining• Restoring the environment• Collaborating to promote sustainable development• Leading our industry towards more sustainable cobalt and copper value chains The report illustrates how these goals are being met at Metalkol RTR and how its operations are being carried out according to international supply chain standards. It showcases that Metalkol RTR is managing social and environmental impacts and contributing to community development. “As the world’s second largest producer of cobalt and a large producer of copper, Metalkol RTR is providing significant support in the transition to a low-carbon economy. This comes with a duty to implement and promote responsible sourcing and long-term, sustainable development. The second performance report – again assured by independent auditors – shows that this is exactly what we are doing at ERG, regardless of the complexities of thetask, which have been compounded by the challenges of the last two years. I would like to thank the whole team for their dedicated efforts towards this great achievement.” said Benedikt Sobotka, CEO of ERG. Related: ERG’s Metalkol RTR commits to responsible minerals assurance process In Africa, ERG mines and processes copper and cobalt ore and produces copper metal and cobalt hydroxide. ERG’s Metalkol Roan Tailings Reclamation (Metalkol),a major tailings reprocessing operation in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, has recently become the world’s second largest cobalt producer as well as a major supplier of copper.