While South Africa is seeing flames (literally at times), its citizens have been quick to point fingers. But what changes have we rallied as her people? Like any other family, Mzansi has had and still has its fair share of squabbles. The rocketing youth unemployment, ailing transport system, public hospitals running out of food supplies, and the energy crisis that controls our livelihoods are all unwarranted for a country that has “enjoyed” democracy from 1994 to 28 years later. Owing to its addiction to corruption, the public service system is on the peripheral of collapse, and all fingers are pointing at the Government. However, personal responsibility is not a trait that many of us have adopted. The only popular efforts that are taken in addressing these issues are through private WhatsApp groups, Twitter keyboards, conversations at the table, and sometimes through unheard riots. Everywhere else but within ourselves. Many socio-economic issues stem from our homes, schools, and churches – the very institutions that breed government officials and decision-makers. These institutions are meant to instill values of truth, independence, accountability, and moral standards that will propel a generation of prolific thinkers. Loadshedding has been on the horizon for almost 3 decades, but no contingencies were set in place for the catastrophe that is unfolding in our midst. South Africa could model a people like the Dutch in taking personal responsibility. With the ongoing war between Russia and Ukraine, many EU countries (dependent on the Kremlin’s LNG supplies) have been left stranded due to sanctions posed on Russia. With the harsh European winter season approaching, gas is an essential component for keeping warm. Not even six months into the  the conflict, Shell and Dow have already set up an experimental unit to electrically heat steam cracker furnaces at the Energy Transition Campus Amsterdam. Over the next year, the experimental unit will be used to test a theoretical electrification model developed for retrofitting today’s gas-fired steam cracker furnaces. Data generated by the unit will be used to validate the model and allow the electrification programme to advance to the next phase; the design and construction of a multi-megawatt pilot plant, with a potential start-up in 2025, cementing The Netherlands as an inventive powerhouse. These are the results of taking personal responsibility and mastering the art of self-governance first, before seeking it externally. As a people created with the highest capabilities, we can steer the course of our beloved country, by playing our roles with excellence and commitment, one day at a time. It is never too late for us to self-reflect, redefine our values as a country and get our minds running, because the saviour is not coming.