With acts of philanthropy seen over the world everyday, South Africa has chosen to go all out for Mandela Day. Barberton Mines has successfully handed over phase 1 and 2 of the Kaapvallei Primary School at Sheba Siding village in Barberton, Mpumalanga. The school is one of Barberton Mines’ current SLP socio-economic development project commitments. It was fitting that the school was handed over on Mandela Day and will significantly improve the conditions for learners in this community, providing them with a better chance to live up to Mandela’s wish for a better life for all South Africans. The event was attended by an appreciative 432 learners and teachers on the first day of the new school semester. Also in attendance to accept the school on behalf of the Mpumalanga Department of Education was MEC Bonakele Majuba. His Royal Highness Prince TS Dlamini of the Lomshiyo Traditional Council gave the vote of thanks at the event and appreciation to Barberton Mines and Pan African Resources representatives. https://t.co/q4KwhxgksM In his keynote address, MEC Majuba expressed his heartfelt gratitude to Barberton Mines and Pan African Resources. He said: “We are motivated by the fact this this is not your first act of goodwill to our communities. We were there in spirit when you upgraded Ngwane Primary School in Spearville, Barberton. We truly appreciate all the great efforts and acts of philanthropy you have done for the school and education in general.” The new school, funded by Barberton Mines and using only local suppliers and contractors, will be completed at a cost of some R20million. Phase 1 and 2 comprises of 8 classrooms, a Grade R block, science laboratory, dining hall and ablution facilities—and completed in line with the norms and standards set by the Department of Education. The facility also includes a perimeter Clear-Vu fence for the security of the learners. Phase 3 will be complete by June 2023 and comprise an additional 3 classrooms, administration block, science laboratory and school library as well as completion of bulk external works. Up to 432 learners were present when school reopened on Tuesday 19 July 2022. The school was constructed following engagement with the local community representatives and the school governing body, who requested a school with proper facilities, to be built in Sheba Village. “Currently, learners get up very early to travel long distances to a school in a converted old mine hostel, often over dangerous terrane and are untidy and exhausted by the time they start the school day. Barberton Mines is committed to being a key role player in community development initiatives in Barberton and surrounding areas and has built numerous infrastructure projects for the benefit of our host communities, along with funding and implementing our ‘beyond compliance’ initiatives to create opportunities and improve lives of our stakeholders, as we Mine for a Future”, read the statement.