Robex Resources and Vivo Energy have completed the hybrid solar power plant at the Nampala gold mine in Mali. The two groups have also signed an exclusivity agreement for Vivo Energy to provide a further hybrid solar and thermal power solution to the Kiniero gold mine in Guinea, owned by Sycamore Mining and currently in the process of merging with Robex following completion of the closing conditions and approval of the Toronto Stock Exchange. With the mining industry’s keenness on reducing its carbon footprint, Vivo Energy says it is proud to contribute to this with its innovative partner Robex. Vivo Energy now supplies carbon free power to the Nampala mine through its equity funded solar hybrid project. This project required zero capital injection by Robex Resources, while reducing the carbon footprint of the mine by around 60,000 t over ten years, while making a material reduction in the mine’s cost of energy. Commenting on the project Stan Mittelman, CEO of Vivo Energy said, “A world-class team comprising Vivo Energy, Robex Resources, and our EPC contractor, Sterling and Wilson overcame the challenges, restrictions and logistical complexities brought by the pandemic and the socio-political situation to deliver this project on budget”. Vivo Energy Mali has supplied fuels and lubricants to the Nampala mine since it reached commercial production in 2017. Robex Resources is a key customer of Vivo Energy in Mali. Benjamin Cohen, CEO, Robex Resources said: “We are proud to have introduced solar power into our Nampala mine, and have been thrilled with the professionalism and dedication of our partners at Vivo Energy. We continue to work on closing the Sycamore Mining merger and, following the success of the Nampala project, have signed an exclusivity agreement with Vivo Energy to develop a hybrid solar energy solar solution that will provide in excess of 40% of the power requirements for the Kiniero mine in Guinea, displacing 27,000 t of CO2 per year. Through these actions Robex Resources continues to contribute to the modernisation of mining practices.” RELATED:200 MW of solar power: Set to power mineral sands operations in SA Alistair Jessop, Head of Power, Vivo Energy added: “We are delighted to have successfully completed the Nampala project with Robex Resources. The greatest endorsement of our work is Robex’s desire to work with us on a new and significantly larger project. Vivo Energy’s Power business delivers innovative equity funded solutions that displace up to 50% of a mine’s thermal generation load, significantly reducing the mine’s carbon emissions and cost of energy. “Vivo Energy’s commercial operations in the 23 African countries where we operate greatly reduce our power projects’ execution and operational risk through our local on-the-ground teams’ expertise, gained over many years.” Khadidiatou Fall, Managing Director, Vivo Energy Mali added: “Our mining customers are always looking for ways to reduce their operational costs and increase theirsustainability. I am proud of the huge contribution my team made to the successfully completion this hybrid solar / fuel solution to help our customer Robex Resourcesachieve their objectives.”