Dual-listed Tharisa has signed an MoU with leading renewable energy firms Total Eren and Chariot for a 40 MW solar photovoltaic plant for the supply of electricity to its Tharisa Mine. Tharisa Mine is in the south-western limb of the Bushveld Complex, South Africa. The mechanized mine has a 20-year open-pit life and the ability to extend operations underground by at least an additional 40 years. Total Eren is an international renewable energy Independent Power Producer (IPP) and Chariot is an African-focused transitional energy company. They are anticipated to initially provide 40 MW peak, with demand expected to increase over the life of the Tharisa Mine, adequately covering the mine’s current energy requirements. Tharisa is taking steps to reduce its carbon footprint in line with the principles of the 2015 Paris Agreement. In September 2021, Tharisa outlined its commitment to reduce its carbon emissions and become net carbon neutral. The reduction of the use of grid power by the Tharisa Mine will be accelerated through the implementation of this and other renewable energy projects. Tebogo Matsimela, head of ESG at Tharisa, comments: “Tharisa plays a significant part in the global energy transition movement, and we are committed to producing these key metals in a sustainable manner. The solar power solution provided by Total Eren is but one of several steps we are taking to ensure our flagship Tharisa Mine, which has a life of mine of over 50 years, has a reduced carbon footprint.” Commitment to carbon neutrality “Our goal is to reduce our carbon emissions by 30% by 2030 and ultimately become net carbon neutral by 2050. Projects such as this solar development, are achievable with the commitment from our company as well as the commitment from our partners in this venture. We challenge all our business partners to implement initiatives that will ensure that we will make our planet a better one for all, while providing sustainable returns to our stakeholders, community and shareholders.” Fabienne Demol, executive vice president and global head of business development of Total Eren, adds: “We are excited to work with Tharisa on this unique project, which is one of the first of its kind on the African continent, with a dedicated focus on supplying electricity, using renewables, to a single user. “Our proven global expertise in solar generation, together with the knowledge of Chariot, will showcase our capabilities to deliver sustainable renewable energy projects for the benefit of our customer, Tharisa, and widely, for the mining industry.”