Following climate talks with President of the COP26 Alok Sharma in June, South African president Cyril Ramaphosa has green-lit the Just Transition Framework, which will set out policy measures and undertakings by different social partners to minimise the social and economic impacts of the long-term move away from coal. The Just Energy Transition Partnership was announced at the COP26 talks in Glasgow in November and the terms are being negotiated by South Africa and partner nations. The deal is said to be touted as a blueprint for future agreements with other coal-dependent developing nations. According to a study conducted by COP26,South Africa, the world’s 13th-biggest source of greenhouse gases, will need to spend $250 billion over the next three decades to fund the closing down of coal-fired power plants and development of replacement green energy such as wind and solar, according to a study released last month. Related: Is South Africa ready to transition from coal to renewable resources? In addition, funds will need to be spent compensating coal-dependent communities whose livelihoods are threatened by the change.“There will be a need for significant capital mobilisation from both public and private sources. Now that we have this framework we will be able to proceed apace with harnessing the benefits of the Just Energy Transition Partnership we concluded with the governments of the US, United Kingdom, Germany, France and the EU last year,” said Ramaphosa. On the adverse, Vuslat Bayoglu Managing Director of Menar, a private investment company, has denounced the move, by blasting what he calls “Anti-mining agents”, emphasising the need for coexisting economic activities. “If you block mining, it means you are also opposed to the social grants paid from taxes and royalties which the state extracts from mining operations. In some parts of the country, nature conservation parks have to coexist with other economic activities such astourism, agriculture, mining and manufacturing. Properly managed coexistence will ensure that the benefits from all economic activities can and must be realised simultaneously. the existence of one legitimate economic activity must not necessarily cancel another. Certainly not in a country where every job matters” said Bayoglu. Environmental NGOs want to stop any development in mining, energy, infrastructure and exploration related except renewable energy projects. Whoever are behind these organised sabotages please leave South Africa alone. We have enough challenges. @DMRE_ZA @environmentza @DWS_RSA https://t.co/pxKDCgVYJd  South Africa’s mining industry employed a total of 458,954 people in 2021, with 92 670 in the coal sector. Failure to maintain or improve these numbers may put the country on the periphery of an economic crisis. “It is irresponsible to make unsuspecting community members leaders of an anti-mining campaign that is seen by job-hungry residents and existing mineworkers as a threat to their economic wellbeing. This transition shouldn’t leave the poor and vulnerable behind,” said July Ndlovu, CEO of Thugela Resources.Ndlovu also mentioned the relevance of coal usage, citing the current war between Ukraine and Russia, which has left many countries stranded over oil and gas prices. “Europe’s coal burn rate has been at its highest in 30 years. This indicates that coal shall remain a staple resource for years to come.” Ndlovu reiterates that coal can be a drive for a a low-carbon future. “I wonder, before you have renewables, where are you going to get the energy to mine these metals you require to deploy all these new renewables if it’s not from today’s energy sources? In fact, we [the coal industry] can be the positive catalyst to accelerating a transition to low carbon future.” The energy transition must take into account the needs of society, he said adding that the World Coal Association has challenged those behind the UN’s recent Climate Change Conference Cop26 – from which Ndlovu said the coal industry had been “uninvited” – to engage with communities that will be worst-affected by the transition.“When I say I have a solemn duty, to the communities that are dependent on my business, for you it is just a statement. For me, I see thousands of families’,” he said. “I’m just saying, go talk to you a few. Because it’s only then that this label that says we are irresponsible, as coal miners can be taken off us” he added. The Presidential Climate Commission added that the new framework falls precisely within the national development plan’s goals and annual government budgeting processesThe plan is for South Africa to produce a draft investment plan in July and to have a final version signed off with the partner countries by early November.