As deal activity heats up, the Top 40 global miners are well-placed to position themselves to take advantage of the rising demand for critical minerals. But with competition coming from multiple angles, they’ll need to think carefully about their next big moves. In 2021, the value of deals among the Top 40 tripled from 2020, while the number of deals increased by 60%. Gold was the key driver of deal activity, representing about 70% of the total value. Gold miners continue to be well-positioned for M&A, given their low levels of debt and high levels of cash due to high gold prices. We expect gold deals to continue as larger companies look to expand their portfolios and the middle tier looks to consolidate. Critical transformation through deals Although gold has dominated Top 40 deals for the past several years, we’re starting to see a significant uptick in critical minerals M&A. Compared with 2020, Top 40 deal value for critical minerals doubled, and the number of deals rose more than fivefold. This trend is evident across the whole mining sector, which has seen 159% growth in critical minerals deal value since 2019. We expect this trend to continue over the next five to ten years as demand for critical minerals grows and assets with high extraction costs become viable as prices rise. Some of the leading Top 40 are well down the path of re-orientating their portfolios towards forward-looking strategies. In August 2021, BHP announced a divestiture of its oil and gas operations to focus on its potash mine development, a rebalancing that reflects the company’s pivot to future-facing commodities. Glencore announced in December 2021 that it intends to simplify its portfolio and accelerate its shift towards the commodities of the future. This strategic mindset is likely to lead to greater diversification among the Top 40 as they move into different commodities and situate themselves at new points in the value chain. For example, South African precious metals miner Sibanye-Stillwater is aiming to become a serious player in the European battery value chain. Action outside the Top 40 The Top 40 aren’t the only ones making moves in critical minerals; in fact, about half the total M&A value in 2021 happened outside the group. A key deal was Sandfire Resources’ US$1.9 billion acquisition of Spanish copper miner Minas de Aguas Teñidas, which propelled the Australian copper and gold miner to become a leading copper-focused producer. The US$2.8 billion merger of Orocobre and Galaxy Resources created Allkem, now one of the world’s largest lithium chemicals companies. According to Galaxy’s chairman, ‘The merged entity’s growth opportunities in both brine and hard rock position it uniquely to take advantage of expected rising EV demand for lithium.’ Given the current and expected growth in demand for critical minerals, it will be interesting to see if some of the larger deals affect the makeup of the future Top 40, with entirely new players entering the frame. Tesla, which owns a claim on a 10,000-acre lithium clay deposit in the US state of Nevada, is considering a vertical integration. Within the last year, the automotive and clean energy company has entered into offtake agreements for its nickel supply with BHP and Vale and for lithium with Liontown Resources and Ganfeng Lithium—two miners outside the Top 40. Similarly, General Motors recently entered an offtake deal with Glencore for cobalt. It’s worth recognising that the rise in creative deals and partnerships can be disruptive, too. When Canadian investment fund Sprott Asset Management acquired Uranium Participation, a uranium holding company, and went on a buying spree, it drove uranium prices up by 64.5% to a nine-year high of over US$50 per pound. Coal and iron ore still in play The shift to net zero is not just creating opportunities in critical minerals. Glencore believes its buyback from joint-venture partners of the remaining two-thirds of coal operations in Colombia for US$588 million in January 2022 will have an estimated investment payback period of less than two years. Vale’s US$270 million sale of its Mozambique coal mine and a logistics corridor and Teck Resources’ potential US$8 billion disposal of its metallurgical coal operations will create further opportunities in the market as some countries seek to maintain continuity of energy supply while navigating the transition to clean energy. There has also been renewed interest in iron ore as prices spiked to an all-time high in 2021. A key transaction was Vedanta Resources’ US$2.0 billion deal to increase its position in its Indian operations. Strategy is key, and timing is everything Given the shifting fundamentals and the anticipated strong deal activity over the next several years, deal strategy for the Top 40 is more critical than it has been for a long time. In assessing deal strategy and investment decisions, companies should expect: The pace and scope of market dynamics mean that mining companies have a very narrow window to assess whether they have the right balance of assets to position themselves for success over the next five to ten years. Read the full report here