The coal power sector is a key focus for low-carbon energy policies as it is the largest source of greenhouse gas emissions, accounting for 42% of global emissions but the increased decommissioning of coal generators in the coming years is likely to heap financial pressure on utility companies by bringing forward asset retirement obligations and environmental remediation liabilities, writes William Attwell, Sustainable Fitch. The long-term economic trend is increasingly unfavourable for the sector in key markets despite recent increases in coal power demand in many developed markets due to energy security concerns. Factors include rising costs for coal operators, falling utilisation rates and falling unit prices for renewables – and an acceleration in retirement of coal assets in thecoming years. Retirements are likely to be concentrated in the US and Europe inthe near term, although further waves of coal plant decommissioning are probable in the 2030s as more countries seek to reduce their carbon emissions in line with their Net Zero pledges. Accelerated decommissioning polices pose financial risks to utility companies by bringing forward their asset retirement obligations (AROs) – the financial liabilities associated with the dismantling of plants. According to a recent World Bank study, decommissioningcosts can range from an average of USD58,000/megawatt (MW) in India to USD117,000/MW in the US, implying multi-billion dollar liabilities falling due in the coming years. In addition to plant closures, utility companies face costs associated with removal of hazardous waste and environmental remediation. Management of coal ash – the material left over from the burning of thermal coal – presents particular difficulties, typically involving complex and costly clean-up operations, and in cases of inadequate remediation, exposing companies to further risks to their financial profiles including fines, reputational damage and litigation. Funding for Coal Phase-Out Increasingly in FocusThe scale of investment required to meet emissions reduction targets is focusing attention on potential financing solutions. In some US states, securitised bonds offer a cost-effective mechanism, and over 20 US states have adopted legislation enabling securitisation of utility assets.It is unclear whether these ‘set aside’ funds will be sufficient, given the scale of future retirements, even though utilities companies in the US and other developed markets are typically required to supply proof that they can meet AROs when they fall due. Low-Carbon Transition Accelerates Coal Power Asset RetirementDecommissioning is a normal part of the lifecycle of coal-fired power generation. In the past, coal plants have been retired at an average age of 46, but have a potential lifespan of 50-60 years1.However, retirement of coal power assets is likely to accelerate in the coming years due to global commitments to transition to a lower-carbon economy, divestment activities and negative screening by investors, although energy security concerns haveincreased reliance on coal generation in a number of developed markets in the past year.In the near term, coal power asset retirements are likely to be concentrated in North America and Europe, given the large number of older generators, more aggressive regulatory actions and increasingly disadvantageous market conditions in those regions. Retirement of coal assets in APAC, notably China – which alone generates over 50% of the world’s coal-fired power – is likely to take longer, even accounting for recent coal ‘phase down’ policy announcements following COP 26. Nonetheless, the generally much younger retirement age of Chinese coal plants (around 24years), and the changing economics of the sector mean that further waves of asset retirements are probable in the mid-2030s main drivers underpin the expected rise in coal asset retirements in the coming years Financing PressuresFinancing costs have risen substantially for the coal power sector in recent years, while capital costs for solar PV and wind projects have fallen. This reflects profitability pressures and wide use of negative screening of investments and lending to thermal coal as part ofinvestors’ ESG strategies. Many coal utilities increasingly struggle to access affordable insurance, with insurers also reducing their exposures in underwriting and asset management.At COP 26, bilateral donors, development finance institutions, export credit agencies and several international banks also pledged to end financing of new unabated coal plants, which is likely to reduce the development of new coal capacity in emerging markets(EMs) in the coming decades. Ongoing Environmental RisksWhere CCR continues to be stored on-site – in ‘ash dams’ or ponds– it can pose significant environmental and public health risks given the potential for seepage of heavy metals and other pollutants into surrounding soil and groundwater systems. Dams can be ‘capped’ with soil and vegetation in an effort to mitigate environmental risks, although to effectively prevent seepage dams need to be lined with a special membrane. Deployment of membranes is rare, however, given the significantly higher costs and technical challenges involved. Related: Is South Africa ready to transition from coal to renewable resources? According to environmental group Earth Justice, 95% of coal ash sites in the USare unlined. Moreover, in many EMs, design standards for dams are underdeveloped and oversight is limited, raising the risk of catastrophic breaches or collapse. In India, 76 coal ash dam incidents were recorded in 2010-2020, notably the large-scale ash dam collapse in Singrauli in Madhya Pradesh, in which at least two people were killed. Contamination resulting from these disasters can spread much further than the immediate dam site. Carbon FinanceFinancing through carbon offsets could provide a further funding stream for retiring and replacing of coal assets, particularly in EMs. Historically, the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) –established under the Kyoto Protocol – has provided a way to monetise emissions reductions from low carbon projects such as coal retirement and renewables. However, the CDM has received criticism about additionality concerns, and the fact that in several cases CDM credits have been issued for new, ‘efficient’ coal plants. The fast-growing – but opaque and fragmented – voluntary carbon markets could provide another funding channel, particularly if progress on regulation and standardisation continues, but individual countries are assessing ways to monetise the benefits ofreduced emissions. For example, Chile is trialling a scheme that seeks to provide compensation and incentives for coal generators to close coal assets early and invest in renewables projects. Under the pilot, Engie Energia Chile S.A. (BBB+/Stable) – one of thecountry’s major utility companies – receives ‘carbon price guarantees’ from the Climate Investment Fund’s Clean Technology Fund for emissions reductions, and this value in built in to low-cost loans from the Fund to finance early coal plant closures. IBD Invest (part of the Inter-American Development Bank), provides Engie with concessional financing to develop wind farms as part of the Chilean programme. The scheme ultimately supports the Chilean government’s plan to retire 65% of coal plants by 2025 and end coal-powered generation by 2040.