With the growing interest of Chinese mining companies in African countries like the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), SRK Consulting is leveraging its global presence to provide added levels of technical expertise in the region. According to Susa Maleba, mining engineer and SRK’s DRC country manager, a recently launched collaboration initiative between SRK practices in the DRC, China and South Africa will optimise service levels for clients based in China. “The need arose due to the increasing number of Chinese clients requiring our expertise in the DRC,” says Maleba. “We have also identified a number of potential Chinese mining clients who may require our services in future.” He explains that SRK will be adding value to its Chinese clients by bringing together the extensive indigenous expertise in the DRC and South African offices with the experience, language and cultural understanding of its China office. He highlights that meeting the needs of clients means communicating effectively and timeously – and understanding cultural factors in doing business. “We must therefore communicate effectively both at mine-level in the DRC and at head office level in China,” he states. “It is crucial for SRK’s China office to engage with our clients in China while maintaining close contact with projects at the mines in the DRC; this level of collaboration ensures consistency in approach and avoids duplication of effort.” Pengfei Xiao, principal consultant and managing director of SRK China, adds that his office has made available a dedicated resource to develop relationships with clients in the DRC, and to build new relationships with prospective Chinese clients. “Our experienced resource geologist Li Frank Feng will be based initially in SRK’s Johannesburg office and will work closely with the SRK practices in South Africa and DRC,” explains Pengfei. A strong focus on ESG SRK’s DRC office in Lubumbashi has been at the forefront of environmental, social and governance (ESG) work since opening in 2010. According to SRK partner and principal environmental scientist Wouter Jordaan, ESG is a critical consideration in mining and needs to be incorporated in all stages from planning and exploration through to mine closure and rehabilitation. “This focus is important in the light of increasingly stringent DRC regulations on environmental and social impacts. There is also a need to transparently comply with ESG reporting requirements of customers such as battery, cellphone and vehicle manufacturers.” He notes that the ESG framework in the DRC is complex, making it critical for mining companies to understand domestic and global requirements. “With our global footprint and multidisciplinary capacity, enhanced by close working relationships between our offices, we can offer clients the necessary local and international perspectives,” he says. This collaborative initiative between the DRC, China and South Africa will underpin a strategic effort to develop SRK’s Chinese client base in other parts of Africa. Beyond Southern and Central Africa, SRK Consulting’s footprint on the continent also includes a presence in regions such as West Africa, with an office in Accra, Ghana.