Loncor Gold is shining a spotlight on the greater gold potential in the northern DRC – home to the only commercial gold mine in the region, Barrick’s Kibali. Having completed a preliminary economic assessment (PEA) on its primary/flagship asset Adumbi, the area could welcome a second gold mine easily – with significant large-scale, upside potential in the future, CEO JOHN BARKER tells LAURA CORNISH. Loncor Gold has been present and active in the northern region of the DRC for about 14 years – with a portfolio of gold assets that it has been evaluating and validating ever since. When Barker joined the company in April 2020, the company was able to increase its exposure in the market and put its projects in the spotlight. “Despite the impacts associated with COVID-19, which gripped the world and global markets at about the same time, we’ve been able to gain traction on our array of projects, with a specific focus on Adumbi – our primary, and most advanced project,” Barker starts. Within that peak COVID-19 period, Loncor successfully expanded Adumbi’s pit shell constrained resource from 1.36 Moz to 3.66 Moz, an exceptional achievement considering the constraints of the pandemic. RELATED:Loncor increases total open pit mineral resources at Adumbi “This project is our COVID-19 baby, which has grown exceptionally well over the last two years – the underground potential yet to be tested,” he reiterates and enthuses. Coupled with the company’s second exploration mature asset Makapela, Loncor’s total gold resource under their control in the region of 5.1 Moz of high-grade ounces. “Perhaps one of our greatest challenges is alleviating investor concerns about the remote location and challenges associated with developing a mine in the DRC, and the northern DRC to be specific. Ivanhoe Mines’ Kamoa Kakula has demonstrated the willingness for investment in the country however, and our proximity to Kibali (200 km away) means the supporting infrastructure and resources needed to support our project are already in place,” Barker notes. Adumbi in detail Adumbi is situated on the Kilo Greenstone belt – and shares very similar geology to formerly owned AngloGold Ashanti’s Geita mine. The deposit is about 900 m long, dips slight north-westerly and its gold is hosted in +100 m thick banded iron formation (BIF). The PEA – released to market in December 2021 – outlines a 303 000 ozpa open pit operation (4.8 Mtpa ROM), producing an average of 2.17 g/t for 10.3 years. These metrics equate to a profit after tax number of US$1 billion at a gold price of $1 840/oz. READ MORE ARTICLES ABOUT GOLD Most interesting are two variations on the capital expenditure to deliver the project to production status: one that incorporates the construction of a hydropower facility and the other using power generated from traditional diesel gensets. The mine’s power requirements are in the region of 36 MW. “A higher capex of $530 million is required with the inclusion of hydropower which offers longer term downstream cost savings and enables us to fulfil a much-needed ESG requirement. This higher capex figure is likely to be reduced as we discuss the potential of a third-party financing, building and operating the hydro facilities, a route that could see capex fall below US$400 million. “However, should we go the traditional diesel genset power route, our capex drops to $390 million – which is largely in line with the costs required to build a mine of this size,” Barker outlines. The beauty of a high-grade deposit such as Adumbi is that it allows for flexibility of approach. Another potential route to production in Barker’s mind could be the development of a smaller pit, enabling a faster production start-up, reduced strip ratios and in turn swifter positive cash flow generation, with the possibility of building a pit bottom decline earlier on should further drilling work at depth confirm higher grades. VIEW OUR EXCLUSIVE VIDEO CONTENT FROM DRC MINING WEEK 2022 “So far, we have not undertaken extensive work underground, although a few holes drilled to date have revealed higher grade zone areas of between 5 and 10 m wide, with grades ranging between 4 and 8 g/t – very similar to Barrick’s jewel, Kibali,” Barker highlights. Objectives in play for the remainder of 2022 There are two key focus area Loncor will be concentrating on for the remainder of the year: the first being to better understand Adumbi’s underground potential – to a depth of around 750 m. This forms part of a bigger exercise and second priority for the year: to build Adumbi’s resource base to 5 Moz. On surface, this entails RC drilling to a depth of about 200 m to increase the density of holes in the deposit and in doing so increase the understanding of the ore body and simultaneously add those important resources to the knowledge base. Beyond this, and finance dependent, Loncor owns an array of other projects in the region which would benefit from exploration drilling, which if successfully executed, could build on what Kibali has started and Adumbi has continued – opening up a new gold mining district in the northern DRC. Outside of the Makapela project already mentioned, Loncor also owns the Imbo East project which has identified four mineralised trends in banded iron formation and metasediments. These include: Esio Wapi: 3.2 km in BIF and metasedimentsMuseveni: 2.7 km in quartz veins and metasedimentsParadis: 0.8 km in quartz veins and metasedimentsMungo Iko: outlined 3.1 km mineralised trend via soil and rock samples. Possible extension of Esio Wapi “Loncor’s value proposition is substantial: delivering significant value from quality gold assets in a mature mining country. Next to AVZ Minerals’ new lithium project, which should move into development imminently, we’re the next new DRC mining project story with merit, with economically lucrative prospects already demonstrated,” Barker concludes.