Leveraging the new Lokotrack® LT200HPX™ mobile cone crusher’s two-deck pre-screen, contractors are not only able to increase their material throughput by up to 30%, but also reduce unnecessary wear and energy costs by limiting the amount of fine material that reports to the crushing chamber. Ideal for secondary and tertiary hard rock crushing, the Lokotrack® LT200HPX™ features the proven Metso Outotec Nordberg® HP200™ cone crusher unit, which is renowned for its high productivity, low operating costs and long service life. With over 10,000 units sold globally, the Nordberg® HP200™ has over the years established itself as Metso Outotec’s most popular cone crusher. When designing the Lokotrack® LT200HPX™, Metso Outotec paid particular attention to increased productivity, which largely hinges on the machine’s two-deck pre-screen, as well as the wide feeding and production conveyors, resulting in up to 30% more capacity. “In many instances, the crusher is fed with a high proportion of fine material, which needlessly passes through the crushing chamber, resulting in reduced throughput and increased wear and energy consumption. With the 1.2 mm x 1.8 m two-deck pre-screen, the fine material in the feed can bypass the crusher and go straight to the stockpile or further in the process. “This not only increases overall output, but also decreases wear and packing in the crushing chamber and can enhance product quality,” explains Francois Marais, sales and marketing director at Pilot Crushtec. The standard H12-10 main conveyor’s adjustable discharge height (2,900 mm / 3,900 mm) allows the LT200HPX™ to be combined easily with other machines in the train. It can also be lowered to ground level for easy maintenance. Further optimisation of crushing results is achieved through Metso Outotec’s IC™ process control system. The user interface enables single-button start and stop and features built-in troubleshooting as well as various parameter selections. It also allows for connection between all Lokotrack® crushers and screens in the same process. With efficiency in mind, the Lokotrack® LT200HPX™ comes with a CAT® engine and direct v-belt crusher drive, ensuring optimum fuel efficiency. Direct drive for crusher with purposely designed gearbox and hydraulic clutch increases machine reliability.