Aim-listed AfriTin Mining has announced metallurgical test work results showing the successful production of a petalite lithium concentrate, indicating the potential for a lithium by-product at the company’s flagship Uis mine in Namibia. Highlights: · A high-purity (up to 94%) petalite lithium concentrate was produced from bulk ore samples by independent test facilities; · Confirms high-grade, ultra-low iron petalite at 4.34% Li2O and contaminants levels of 0.03% Fe2O3 and 0.93% alkalis (Na2O + K2O); · Afritin expects the concentrate to meet demand from premium glass and ceramics manufacturers, and be suitable feedstock for battery-grade lithium carbonate or lithium hydroxide converters; · A large bulk sample (11 tonnes) was collected to produce petalite lithium concentrate samples for distribution to potential offtakers. Read more about Afritin Lithium pilot plant on the cards CEO Anthony Viljoen commented, “We are pleased to announce the results from the first phase of lithium test work for the Uis Mine, showing the potential for producing a high-quality petalite lithium concentrate from our lithium mineral resource. “The lithium resource is contained within the currently mined ore body, and the lithium concentrate will be a by-product to our existing tin concentrate. These positive test results allow us to progress to the design and construction of a lithium pilot plant at Uis. Petalite concentrate has historically been sold into the technical market, as feedstock in glass and ceramics industry. Given the increasing global demand for lithium supply and the quality of our lithium, we are also receiving in-bound enquiries from the lithium conversion industry who can develop petalite into battery-grade lithium carbonate or hydroxide. Techno-economic modelling of an expanded operation  has highlighted the substantial revenue potential of lithium for the Uis Mine.” Afritin has appointed Consulmet as EPCM contractor for designing and constructing a 20 tph pilot plant at Uis with a target commissioning date in Q4 2022. The pilot plant is intended as a proof of concept for a full-scale, integrated lithium beneficiation circuit, which would be added to the existing processing plant. Petalite lithium concentrate produced from the pilot plant is intended for initial sales into premium glass and ceramic markets, and test material for existing and/or prospective converters of lithium ore concentrates to battery-grade lithium.