The International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) has published a new Social and Economic Reporting Framework that binds its members to report a set of social and economic indicators. The framework aims to empower communities, governments, and investors to assess the contribution of mining to social and economic development more easily. In addition, the ICMM members have committed to report on eight key indicators which include country by country tax reporting on revenues, payment and tax, workforce composition, pay equality, wage level, training provided, local procurement, education, and skills programmes, and capacity building. The Framework was developed through an assessment of existing reporting frameworks and company practices relating to social and economic contribution. “Mining plays a significant role in driving social and economic development in the regions where it takes place. What has been missing until now is a consistent set of indicators that measure these contributions, like for like. ICMM’s Social and Economic Reporting Framework raises the bar in several areas including the disaggregation of data by gender and ethnicity, and reporting of employee wages compared to the local living wage. This commitment represents a major step forward, and I encourage all mining companies to adopt the Framework to provide a more complete picture of the industry’s social and economic contribution and collectively identify areas for improvement,” said Rohitesh Dhawan CEO of ICMM. The ICMM says that these disclosures will also help companies to better assess and strengthen the delivery of their social and economic contribution programmes and provide a clearer overview of the contribution mining is making to economic growth, employment, skills, health, education, and a range of other development opportunities in the regions close to their operations. Read more about ICMM:ICMM makes landmark climate commitment to net zero by 2050 or sooner Chris Griffith, CEO of Gold Fields, said: “Along with other ICMM members, Gold Fields was actively involved in the development of the Framework as we believe the reporting of social and economic indicators is critical to help provide a clear picture of the contribution we make. This transparency is key to winning the trust of our stakeholders, particularly host communities and governments. We are already aligned with several of the indicators – as reported in our annual Report to Stakeholders – and are working towards disclosure against the full Framework.” Thus far, only 75 % of ICMM members have begun incorporating these indicators into their reporting systems and are committed to disclosing the indicators by 2024, while the remaining 25% have 5 months to either adopt the approved position or publicly explain the reasons why they cannot, according to the ICMM’s ‘conform-or-explain’ basis.