Atlantic Lithium has announced the mobilisation of an additional 3 drill rigs, the expansion of the drilling programme and new drilling observations at the Ewoyaa Lithium Project in Ghana, West Africa where it has defined a JORC (2012) compliant Mineral Resource Estimate of 30.1 Mt @1.26% Li2O. Commenting on the Company’s latest progress, Len Kolff, Interim CEO of Atlantic Lithium, said: “We are pleased to be increasing the number of drill rigs active on the ground, with four rigs planned to be drilling within the next two weeks. “We have drilled over 9,000 m to date with multiple new spodumene pegmatite intervals observed over the Grasscutter North prospect, with assays pending. “Resource expansion drilling below the Ewoyaa Main deposit has returned significant widths of spodumene pegmatite observed in RC drill chips with up to 80 m intervals downhole in multiple drill holes and an apparent widening of the pegmatite at depth with assays pending and drilling ongoing. This bodes well for future resource upgrades. “We have increased the planned meterage from approximately 19,000 m to 37,000 m with a significant increase in resource expansion and infill drilling planned over the Ewoyaa deposit, including infill for conversion to Measured Resources for the first 1.5 years of mine life. “We are currently experiencing significant delays in assay turnaround time due to the lithium boom and stretched labs, with over one-month delays, however our timeline for the delivery of the PFS study during Q3, 2022 is unchanged. “To date, only a small area of approximately 28km2 has been auger tested, with an even smaller 13 km2 area drill tested within our broader 560 km2 lithium portfolio in Ghana. Resource extension and infill RC and DD drilling designed to test depth and strike extensions of known mineralisation, convert Inferred to Indicated Resources and define Measured Resources for the first 1.5 years of mine production. @Geodrill_GH #ALL $ALLIF #Lithium #Ghana pic.twitter.com/fSUAeDFrk4 “The airborne geophysical survey for radiometrics, magnetics and radar topography has been completed, as has the 100 m x 100 m grid soil geochemistry survey over the Cape Coast license area with results pending. “The exploration potential is clear, and we see significant opportunity for resource growth. Not only do we believe that Project metrics will improve significantly beyond the current defined mine life, but we also see the potential for further economic improvement due to the recent increases in spodumene concentrate pricing which have far exceeded our initial SC6 price modelling parameters. “These fundamentals continue to demonstrate Ewoyaa as an industry-leading asset; with the Company ideally positioned to benefit from the growing lithium demand.”