AIM and BSE-listed diamond explorer Botswana Diamonds has announced promising results of a ground geophysics survey on its Sekaka diamonds prospecting licenses in Botswana. The survey reveals high interest anomalies indicative of kimberlite pipes discovered in the vicinity of the KX36 diamond discovery. Chairman, John Teeling commented, “These results strongly support our view that other kimberlites remain to be found in the vicinity of our 100% owned KX36 diamond discovery. If these anomalies prove to be diamondiferous kimberlites it will enhance the commercial prospects of the existing KX36 discovery. We will now do follow up work to target drill sites.” Following a detailed review of aeromagnetic data on Sekaka licences PL069/2019 and PL224/2007 four high interest anomalies were identified within a 6 km radius of the existing Botswana Diamond KX36 discovery in the Central Kalahari of Botswana. The anomalies are magnetic highs along fault structures and are typical of occurrences of kimberlite pipes in the area. A recent ground follow-up work with ground magnetic surveys confirmed these encouraging anomalies. The next steps are gravity modelling and soil sampling. A drill programme will be put in place. Read more about Botswana Diamonds Promising potential in Sekaka’s vicinity Botswana Diamonds is involved in three diamond exploration companies in Botswana: the 100% owned Sunland Minerals and 100% owned Sekaka Diamonds and a minority stake in the Maibwe joint venture.  All three companies have diamond exploration licences in the Kalahari Desert. KX36 is a 3.5 hectare kimberlite pipe, discovered by Sekaka, in the Kalahari. The kimberlite is situated approximately 70 km from Gem Diamonds’ Ghaghoo Mine, and 260 km north-west of Botswana’s capital Gaborone. Sekaka’s extensive diamond exploration database contains the results of work undertaken since 2004. The database comprises the results of airborne and ground-based electro magnetics work (inclusive of the Falcon survey), as well as heavy mineral sampling. The company believes that the information contained in the database will provide substantial support to its future kimberlite exploration activities in Botswana. The area of initial specific focus will be the heavy mineral train flowing from KX36 as it is likely that there are undiscovered buried kimberlites in the vicinity of KX36 as kimberlites generally occur in clusters and not in isolation.