South Africa’s Department of Trade, Industry and Competition (dtic) is hosting a South African pavilion at DRC Mining Week, taking place in Lubumbashi from 1–3 June. The delegation comprises 20 South African firms that specialise in the latest mining technologies, engineering, equipment, services, and technical skills. It is the fourth time that South Africa is represented by an official country pavilion at the event, which has been around for 17 years. The largest expo and conference in the heart of the Copperbelt dedicated to the mining and industrial sector, DRC Mining Week will again gather some 600 mining executives from 80 mining houses and operators, 4 000+ attendees, of which 70% will be international, more than 80 expert speakers, and the in- and outdoor exhibition will host German and South African country pavilions. South Africa’s sought-after skills “We are thrilled to have such a strong showing by South Africa at our first live, in-person show back in Lubumbashi since the pandemic; we regard it as a huge homecoming for all of us,’ says Elodie Delagneau, event director of DRC Mining Week. “The technical know-how, experience and specialist knowledge of our South African exhibitors are in great demand across the mining landscape on the continent, and in the DRC in the particular, as it is fast becoming a key mining destination as the world’s largest producer of cobalt”. Cobalt is a critical mineral used in the production of lithium-ion batteries found in almost all smartphones, tablets, laptops, and electric vehicles. The DRC reportedly has untapped mineral deposits estimated at US$24 trillion. It is Africa’s largest copper producer, the second largest producer of diamonds and has significant deposits of gold, zinc, tin, and potash. The companies that will represent South Africa at DRC Mining Week as part of the official South African pavilion are: International and local who’s who The DRC Mining Week programme will address topical issues and challenges in the sector, as well as give the mining houses, operators, and industry suppliers the opportunity to share project updates and success stories. The who’s who in the mining sector who are part of DRC Mining Week’s conference programme include: The event boasts longstanding and loyal support from many sector leaders, including Equity BCDC, Orange and Standard Bank who are diamond plus sponsors, and ERG Africa, FBN Bank, Glencore, and Vodacom Business, who are diamond sponsors. Other big names in industry that have partnered with DRC Mining Week in June include Ivanhoe Mines, the Cobalt Institute, USAID, and Global Communities. To register to attend DRC Mining Week from 1–3 June 2022, click here. About DRC Mining Week DRC Mining Week is organised by The Vuka Group (formerly Clarion Events Africa), a leading Cape Town-based and multi-award-winning organiser of exhibitions, conferences, and digital events across the continent in the infrastructure, energy, mining, mobility, ecommerce and CX sectors. Other well-known events by The Vuka Group include Enlit Africa, Nigeria Mining Week, Smarter Mobility Africa, ECOM Africa and CEM Africa. Mining Review Africa, the leading monthly magazine and digital platform in the African mining industry, is the event’s premium media partner. DRC Mining Week dates and venue: Website: http://www.drcminingweek.com    Twitter: https://twitter.com/drcminingweekFacebook: DRC-Mining-WeekLinkedIN: https://www.linkedin.com/groups/4922857