Mining laws across Africa have changed at regular intervals over the last twenty to thirty years, driven by several factors including political-regime changes, demands for nationalism and nationalisation, cyclical demand for minerals, and more recently, the global commitment to transition to a greener, circular, and carbon-neutral economy. The routine comment in response to many of these changes has been “if only we could have policy and regulatory certainty, there would be more investment”. Policy and regulatory certainty does of course play a crucial role in investment decision-making. However, what policy and regulatory certainty means has changed substantially over the last few years, from its focus on mining laws that are clear, to extensive discretion by the decision-maker, to a broader approach which, while including these historical concepts, now incorporates acknowledgement of social and transformation imperatives and the most recent emphasis on environment, governance and social (ESG) principles. Investors have come to realise that mining laws that incorporate provisions which address socio – economic requirements and provide for a “social licence” create more certainty. In many countries, the mining and related laws have evolved around a rapidly changing world, and attempts to balance various competing demands, including socio-economic and environmental imperatives. It is always easier to make legislative changes when the mining and natural resources sector in a country is doing well, considering it is usually a very good barometer of the state of the economy more generally, and often contributes to “windfall” revenue to governments that have managed to create an environment which is attractive to investment. Not all countries in Africa have managed to achieve this or have done so too late to benefit meaningfully from demand-cycles and prices. As with the current conflict between Russia and Ukraine which has had a significant impact on global natural resource demand and pricing, conflicts, security concerns and other crises have contributed to the evolution of mining laws in Africa. While these conflicts are often local or regional, the COVID-19 pandemic is global, and the mining and natural resources sector across Africa had to accelerate changes to relevant laws to ensure that mining and beneficiation operations could continue despite severe restrictions, in support of global demand for some minerals, such as gold, which is regarded as a “safe haven” mineral, and the increasing demand for the “battery minerals”. This accelerated evolution of laws to address the COVID-19 pandemic had a significant impact on the efficiency of mining and beneficiation operations and has been different from the natural evolution of mining laws brought about by the ever-present drivers such as socio-economic demands, the commitments to ensure that citizens benefit from mining and beneficiation activities, and political-regime changes. Some relevant examples: South Africa has been a good example of natural evolutionary changes, after 1994. The country’s constitutional imperatives resulted in far-reaching changes to almost all substantive laws, including those relating to the mining and natural resources sector, with particular emphasis on the Mineral and Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA), the Mining Charter, and the environmental laws. After much criticism of various changes and proposed changes to the MPRDA, some proposed changes were withdrawn, contributing to a level of political and regulatory certainty. RELATED:20 ways to kickstart investment in South African miningIs South Africa’s exploration strategy too little and too late?Mantashe’s address to Mining Indaba: disappointingly vague The controversy and criticism around the Mining Charter, some of which has been addressed through the South African courts, has remained a point of discussion, but the clarification by the South African courts has contributed to a measure of stability. Many African jurisdictions have adopted a “gentle evolution” of their mining laws. This has been the typical hallmark of countries that have a relatively stable political regime, a mature, structured mining industry, strong industry stakeholders, consistent historical investment, and good service delivery to meet socio-economic requirements. Good examples of this include Namibia, Botswana, and Zambia. Namibia has consistently maintained its position as one of sub-Saharan Africa’s primary investment destinations because of relative stability. The “gentle evolution” of its mining laws, including the Minerals Policy of Namibia, the Minerals Prospecting and Mining Act, the Minerals Development Fund of Namibia Act, the Diamond Act, and the Foreign Investment Act, all contribute to a framework that has, relative to its neighbours in Africa, remained stable. This has provided required levels of certainty, supported by consistent interpretation and application of its mining laws. RELATED:Anglo American commissions Benguela Gem diamond recovery vesselAfriTin Mining lands a Namibian Stock Exchange listingNamibian President Geingob visits Antwerp Diamond Industry Botswana has been in a similar position. Since independence in 1966, the government of Botswana has implemented mining and mineral policies and regulations which have maximised the benefits derived from mining. Its socio-economic programmes have resulted in significant infrastructure development, higher levels of education, and significant growth in its gross domestic product. RELATED:Sandfire Resources’ Motheo – It’s all systems goLucara’s Q1,2022 revenue reflective of a strong start to 2022 The Mines and Minerals Act of Botswana vests ownership of all rights to minerals in the government of Botswana and in addition to royalties that are payable, the government of Botswana has the right and option to acquire interests in mining companies and to re-negotiate this participation interest, from time to time. The changes to the Mining Laws in Zambia have been less “gentle”, primarily because of Zambia’s legacy nationalisation programme which focused on providing mass-scale employment, often at the expense of profitability, and had various consequences including lack of exploration spend, lack of allocation of appropriate capital and operating expenditure on maintenance of assets. RELATED:Zambian government investigate Argonaut’s Lumwana West licenseWhat do changes to the mining tax regime mean for Zambians?Kagem optimistic about Zambia’s gemstone future This left the Zambian mining sector in a precarious position and prompted the government of Zambia to move to privatisation through Zambia Copper Mines International Holdings in the 1990s. The Mines and Minerals Development Act, and the Mines and Minerals Development Amendment Act, which currently govern mining operations in Zambia, are an attempt by the government of Zambia to balance the competing interests which underpinned historical nationalisation programmes and the objectives of the privatisation programme. As the saying goes, there is strength in numbers, and West Africa, which consists of 16 independent states (as identified by the United Nations), recognised the importance of regional solidarity as far back as 1975, when the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) was established by treaty. ECOWAS’s vision 2020 has been focused on economic cooperation and regional integration for development of the West African economy, including harmonisation of mining laws. RELATED:Fortuna reports net income of US$27.0 million Q2,2022Kouroussa: A key contributor to Hummingbird’s portfolioAtlantic Lithium: Developing West Africa’s first lithium producing mine ECOWAS continues to play a critical role in regional harmonisation of mining and related laws, and the region will probably benefit further from the commencement of trade, on 1 January 2021, under the Africa Continental Free Trade Area Agreement (AfCFTA). AfCFTA is aimed at implementing trade facilitation measures that make it easier to do business, simplify customs procedures, and reduce and even do away with tariffs. A good example of a more radical evolution of mining laws has been Tanzania. Shortly after his election, President John Magufuli, living up to his nickname as the “bulldozer” waded into the mining industry by bringing in sweeping changes to the Tanzanian mining laws, unilaterally cancelling retention licences, and publicly accusing mining companies of defrauding the Tanzanian government of taxes and royalties. RELATED:Barrick raises dividend on back of strong cash positionStrandline secures A$50 million to fast track growth projectsFormer Kenya Ambassador to Tanzania appointed to Caracal Gold board These changes, most of which occurred between 2017 and 2019, provided the Tanzanian government with powers to review and require re-negotiation of previous mining agreements concluded by government and mining companies. The changes made in February 2019 to the mining regulations, however, seemed to be a genuine attempt by then President John Magufuli to accommodate concerns raised by investors and mining companies. The approach adopted by President John Magufuli’s successor, President Samia Suluhu Hassan, and the settlement of the dispute with Acacia Mining, seems to be a move in the right direction, contributing to a more positive view of the 2017 and 2018 changes to the Tanzanian Mining Laws. The Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC), with the largest cobalt reserves in the world, created controversy when the government published the revised Mining Code and the revised Decree in 2018. At attempt by the DRC government to clarify the provisions of the revised Mining Code and the revised Decree have not been successful, with the annotated version, in many instances, simply re-stating the content of the revised Mining Code. RELATED:Kibali powers ahead while Barrick plans further investments in DRCDRC’s Central Copper Resources secures ground adjacent to Kamoa-KakulaAlphamin announces record Q1,2022 EBITDA guidance The annotated version of the revised Mining Code, which was published in July 2020, has therefore, unfortunately, not allayed the fears of investors surrounding key aspects such as stabilisation periods, super taxes, and  increased royalties.