The Board of Ionic Rare Earths (IonicRE) has reported the substantial 70% increase to the total Mineral Resource Estimate (MRE) and a material increase in resource confidence classification, at its 51% owned Makuutu Rare Earths Project. The updated Makuutu MRE is estimated at 532 Mt at 640 ppm TREO, above a cut-off grade of 200 ppm TREO minus CeO2 (TREO-CeO2). The Indicated component of the MRE has been increased to 404 Mt at 670 ppm TREO, representing a 512% increase on the previous March 2021 Indicated resource estimate. RELATED:Ionic Rare Earth’s Makuutu: A key player in the green energy revolutionIonic Rare Earths releases Makuutu phase 4 results This updated MRE cements Makuutu amongst the world’s largest ionic adsorption clay (IAC) deposits, with the potential to significantly increase, and as a globally strategic resource for low-cost, high-margin and long-term security of magnet and heavy rare earth oxide (HREO) supply. Additionally, the updated Makuutu MRE contains a significant portion of highly valuable HREO (25%) and critical rare earth oxides (CREO, 34%), which collectively account for a substantial 42% of the Resource mineralisation. Commenting on this significant MRE update, IonicRE’s MD, Tim Harrison said: “This resource update at Makuutu has significantly exceeded my expectation. In essence, the mineralised system appears to be significantly larger than we had contemplated.” “The potential of Makuutu is now clearly defined in a global context. This resource update will support the feasibility study currently underway, which will now look at incorporating both a faster ramp up and greater annual production capacity driven by a material step change in Indicated resources. “The feasibility study to be completed later this year will be used to support a mining licence application expected to be submitted before the end of October 2022. Makuutu is clearly a unique asset, near development ready, with product to be available for markets developing in the US and Europe.” “Beyond this MRE update, we will also review and update the previous Exploration Targets which will now be revised to incorporate new data plus the Phase 3 scout drilling from last year on EL00147 and the inclusion of the new tenement at EL00257.”