The latest edition of the Minerals Council’s Facts and Figures 2021 book can highlight a remarkable milestone for our industry in that the value of production exceeded R1 trillion for the first time in 2021. – Minerals Council South Africa CEO, Roger Baxter “This only adds to the pleasure I have in introducing you to the range of data you will find in this annual publication that offers consolidated information about many aspects of our industry. Representing a more than 30% increase on 2020, it helps explain the significant impact mining has had on easing the extent of South Africa’s fiscal crisis. After the lockdown in March 2020 the industry operated for approximately eight months, and it operated for the whole of 2021 so after the lockdown in March 2020 it operated for more than a full year. “We are also very pleased with the increase in average employment for the year of more than 6,000 people. This marks an almost full recovery of employment lost in 2020, mainly due to COVID-19. “The news, however, is not all positive. You will see the continuation of the trend where costs are increasing much faster than headline consumer price index (CPI) inflation, this time by a margin of almost four percentage points. And, while the last couple of years are exceptions, input costs have generally increased more rapidly than commodity prices. “Regrettably, and more seriously, we cannot provide positive information on the industry’s safety performance in 2021. There were 74 employees killed in mining accidents, compared with 60 in 2020. As you will see in the book, and elsewhere in Minerals Council communications, this second consecutive annual regression in safety performance measured by numbers of fatalities has prompted a range of programmes and other initiatives to address the worrying situation. “Early trends in 2022 suggest that the regression has been halted. However, they also tell us that we have further intensive work to do. I invite you to study the Facts and Figures book and to useit for your analysis of the industry. And, if you find that any potentially useful data may be missing, please let us know and we will do our best to remedy this in future editions.”