De Beers’ US$2 billion cash injection to transition its Limpopo-based Venetia mine from a surface operation to an underground mine has been a massive undertaking, and one that started 10 years ago when the diamond giant’s board granted approval for the project. Considering the lengthy timeframe to develop the mine, it has remained largely on track and on budget – impressive considering the impact of working through four COVID-19 waves in the last two years. Project director ALLAN RODEL and his team hosted LAURA CORNISH on site to bring her up to speed. How many years does it take to transition a large-scale open pit diamond mine to an equally large-scale underground mining operation, capable of producing the same or possibly more run-of-mine (ROM) tonnages – in a remote area of Limpopo? Ten years according to Rodel, who confirms that the company’s Venetia Underground Project (VUP) is on track to produce its first underground carats in H1, 2023, making it almost exactly 10 years since the project officially kicked off in 2013. This has been an undertaking of significant proportion – for De Beers, to ensure Venetia remains one of its largest diamond producers in the global portfolio, for the South African economy and of course for the hundreds of employees who will work for the mine into a future that extends well beyond its original open pit lifespan (ending in 2022). Having dealt with the impact of multiple COVID-19 waves over the last two years, during a critical period of project construction, the VUP has fared extremely well and for the remainder of this year moves into completion of key elements necessary to ensure a successful start-up in the not-so-distant future. “80% of our on-site employees (including mostly contractor business partners) have been vaccinated, enabling us to track comfortably against our post COVID-19 development forecast,” Rodel confirms. VUP metrics at a glance For those less familiar with the VUP, it entails the design, procurement, fabrication, logistics, construction, and commissioning of an entirely new mining complex that includes a highly mechanised underground mine and all associated shaft and surface infrastructure. “The transition from open pit to underground also extends the mine’s lifespan considerably. Instead of moving into a closure period this year, we will now continue to operate until 2046 and already we are exploring the potential to take the mine even further into the future,” Rodel shares. The underground mine comprises two vertical shaft systems (both delivered by Murray & Roberts Cementation) for personnel transport, ore transport, routing of services, lateral access levels on 54, 94, 100 and 103 level and shaft bottoms at 107 level (1 070 m) for the service and production shafts respectively. Surface infrastructure to accommodate the new complex includes a surface terrace hosting a main consumer substation, winder houses and headgears, an office complex, change house, lamp room, proto room, concrete batch plant, surface ventilation fans, compressor house, shaft service workshops incorporating the rope store/skip workshop, fire and process water systems, process water settlers, domestic water tank, process water dam, firewater tanks, ore and waste conveyors and a buffer stockpile. Once in operation, Venetia’s two kimberlites (K01 and K02) will have fully transitioned from open pits to underground operations. The K02 pit’s resource is already depleted and the K01 pit will conclude surface mining in late 2022 – accommodating a smooth changeover to the underground mine. “We will mine 6 Mtpa ROM to produce between 4.5 and 5.5 million carats per year (volumes like those from the open pit). The ‘top of mine’ portion will deliver full production of around 4 Mtpa for about four years after which the ‘bottom of mine’ will move into production, enabling nameplate capacity to be achieved in 2025/26. To ensure a seamless, uninterrupted supply of production, stockpile material is building on surface that will be blended with the underground tonnages to maintain volumes. Current project status boasts multiple successes Not only did the VUP end 2021 on a high note, having set a record with breaking through the 1 000 m of development for the first time in November, it also set another record in January with the biggest haulage volumes achieved to date – thanks to the successful opening of the K02 portal. “We further have recently commissioned the first of the three phases of the top-of-mine water system which will help us navigate the potentially high volumes of water that could funnel from the pit into our underground workings,” Rodel outlines. The mine’s water management system is in fact one of the most vital components of the entire project. Because the deposit sits directly below the pit, the potential for flooding is high and must be prevented. In addition to an extensive pumping system, the mine will comprise multiple large water doors, designed to block water into specific areas when needed. First production requires the completion of nine water doors in total, the first of which is already in construction underground. “At full pumping capacity, we can push 4 500 cubic metres of water an hour to surface. The first phase of the pumping system was commissioned this past January, the second will be commissioned in June this year and the last phase in June 2023,” Rodel further explains. Over and above this, De Beers has also invested R70 million in a new weather station, linked to South African Weather Services, which can pre-empt severe weather and enable the mine to prepare in advance. Being proactive is critical when managing the risk of water ingress. “Water is and will remain one of our biggest challenges on site and we simply will not start production until we’ve commissioned the doors and supporting infrastructure and have the necessary pumping systems operational,” Rodel highlights. Another major component of the project recently completed is the Proto room, lamp room and change house complex which includes biometric readers to ensure access control. Winder rope-up is due for completion in May, the same month two new contracts will kick in – the construction of a workshop on 46 Level and construction work on the western side of the top of mine. Still on the to do list While every year is critical in a project development of this scale, the remainder of 2022 becomes the most important as a few outstanding but essential project elements must be completed to be project start-up ready. “If you think about this in simple terms, it includes water, power, ventilation, people and systems,” Rodel notes. The water infrastructure, already outlined, has been explained and is on track for completion. Ventilation infrastructure, including vent doors, fans and the bulk air cooler need to be completed and commissioned and these are also on track. “The system infrastructure is equally important and ultimately will be the driver of the mine, so the necessary procedures that form part of the systems need to be developed and put in place.” Finally – the personnel component, of equal importance to every other area of the VUP. “There is a lot of work to finalise regarding training and transferring open pit personnel to operate underground, mechanised equipment. Every one of these individuals must undergo heat tolerance testing and medical fitness screening before undergoing a detailed role-specific training programme. New recruitment placements must also be made, and the necessary training provided for. Training is conducted at Murray & Robert Cementation’s Bentley Park training facility, together with some initial on-site training at the new Venetia skills development centre. All training will migrate to the newly commissioned Venetia Mine Skills Development Centre in 2022. An underground training centre will also be commissioned in April this year. Hands-on training is naturally an important element in this process and De Beers has contracted 80 expatriate Redpath underground personnel, mostly from Australia, to assist with skills transfer on some of the key mechanised equipment units such as the twin jumbo drill rigs. These skills will be taught in two phases – the first observing and operating with a Redpath expert. The second phase will comprise dedicated equipment for training which will be situated in the K02 UG development area. To date, 180 employees have transitioned from the surface to the underground operation, which will employ a total of around 860 while the surface construction and open pit operation ramps down. There are currently 270 employees in the open pit. Approximately 40% of these will be assigned to open pit rehabilitation work and material rehandling post their exit from the current operation. The construction of a project of this magnitude has many moving parts that must come together to seamlessly make the next transition from development to operation. The beginning of the end of this part of the VUP’s journey is approaching. In fact, my next site visit may be celebrating the first diamonds recovered from the underground mine.