MOSES MADONDO, the former senior vice president of innovation and technology at AngloGold Ashanti, officially took up the position of MD at De Beers Group Managed Operations in January this year. Madondo brings with him a wealth of technical mining and leadership skills that positions him perfectly to “drive the company forward as a pioneer of the new diamond world”, he tells LAURA CORNISH. Having grown up with a fascination for machines, Madondo knew from an early age that mechanical engineering was the right career choice. With a bursary from Anglo American, the new MD was quickly able to merge his interest with the field of mining. “My formative years as a mechanical engineer started in 1998 at Mponeng gold mine, previously known as Western Deep Levels Mines – now the deepest mine in the world. AngloGold Ashanti had a detailed mining training programme as part of its structured management trainee programme where I was introduced to actual mining and processing, but also my ultimate passion for leading people,” Madondo starts. While he later specialised in engineering design within the mining space, it was the exposure he received through deep level mining that left him feeling he could add more value into how people are led and how operations are managed. “I enrolled for an Executive Master of Business Administration with the University of Cape Town and went back to mining operations management, with a focus on leading people and teams in an engaged approach as well as systems approach to managing operations.” The rest, as they say, is history. “My people orientated leadership approach has been my focus for over 20 years. I’ve managed mining operations from processing to mining within the AngloGold Ashanti stable and am now excited to enter a new phase in my career with De Beers Managed Operations.” Madondo continues: “I have strong views about how people should be led, and one of my philosophies is ‘tell people why’, because when people understand ‘why’, they are enabled to make appropriate decisions and feel empowered to help the business achieve its outcomes. I have found that people love and embrace good visionary leadership that is transformational, engaged and accessible, and that’s certainly how I have gone about my leadership roles.” A love for people has not seen Madondo’s technical capabilities waver. “I also enjoy building and making things better, and mining gives that opportunity in bucket loads – excuse the pun! I love seeing construction of large projects and enjoy being part of creating incredible infrastructure – and not only for the sake of building them, but for the value that they add to societies at large,” he points out. Another major aspect to his string of skills and interests is building and reorganising businesses. “I’ve had the opportunity to lead and manage several successful operational turnarounds. By aligning myself with organisations like De Beers Group and Anglo American, businesses which seek to be exceptional corporate citizens, I have an opportunity to realise my passion to make a difference. “There’s no doubt that De Beers Group and Anglo American have certainly made significant socio-economic contributions in South Africa, and indeed in all the countries and communities where they operate.” Bringing new technical and leadership excellence into De Beers Group It is easy to see why Madondo was a good fit for De Beers Group. In his position as MD, he must continue to ensure the company fulfils its mandate of diamond recovery and asset management, mine closure and beneficiation excellence. As MD of De Beers Managed Operations, Madondo is responsible for the company’s South African and Canadian operations. “Part of what attracted me to De Beers Group was its purpose-focused orientation – contributing towards a better future through its ‘Building Forever’ sustainability framework. “I look forward to contributing towards the achievement of our ambitious 2030 sustainability goals for our employees, communities, stakeholders, and our planet,” he highlights. Some of the key objectives for Madondo include completing the delivery of the underground project at Venetia safely and timeously. He will also focus on ensuring input and output consistency across the operations while continuously building on strong critical foundations in the areas of ‘beyond zero harm’, leadership and culture, inclusion and diversity and human rights. As the newly appointed MD, Madondo’s immediate focus is to spend time understanding the business, meeting the people who make the business “great” and simply “hearing their stories”. This will be achieved by travelling to every operation within the De Beers Managed Operations stable and engaging with the various teams. “My goal is to ensure that we sustain the stability and achievements that have been made in the business and extend those gains to further opportunities towards new growth. “Ultimately, my decision to take on this role was primarily informed by my affinity to De Beers’ values and its clear purpose to ‘Make Life Brilliant’. In addition, I am inspired by the De Beers’ ‘Building Forever’ sustainability framework and commitments, which are focused on creating a positive and sustainable impact that will endure well beyond the discovery of our last diamond,” Madondo concludes. Madondo’s milestone achievements in his career With a passion for leading people in new and different ways, especially in deep level mining, Madondo believes this direction and drive has given him the success he has seen in almost every operation he’s managed since 2010, particularly in the fields of safety improvements and business profitability. At the very first processing plant he managed, the operation achieved a record tonnage within a period of three months, an achievement which only comes out of activating the best in people, together with realising the latent potential within the asset. In his first general manager role at a deep level hard rock gold mine in the old Vaal Reefs Mining in Klerksdorp, he realised several major first-time safety achievements – 3 million fall-of-ground fatality-free shifts and two years fatality free shifts. This mine saw a major turnaround within a space of a year in its profitability and operational performance. Madondo has achieved similar operational turnarounds in several of the operations he has managed. One of his greatest highlights however is the safety performance he (and his team) achieved at AngloGold Ashanti in 2019 when the South African operations achieved their first ever fatality-free calendar year, under his leadership. From gold to diamonds “It is early days but so far, I have been fascinated by the diamond industry. While it is globally a very diverse industry when you consider all stages of the value chain, it’s clear that good quality relationships, trust and a genuine love for the product are the foundations upon which the industry is built, and these values remain at its heart. “I’ve also been impressed by the hugely positive impact that diamonds create in the communities and countries where they are discovered. This goes well beyond employment and socio-economic benefits to span extensive conservation programmes, enterprise development programmes for small businesses and a strong focus on empowering women and girls to provide business and education opportunities that may not otherwise be readily available,” Madondo enthuses. Like many industries, the diamond industry is going through a period of transformation focused on embracing new technologies, enhancing efficiencies, and finding ways to better connect consumers to all the good that diamonds do for the people and places where they are discovered. “This makes it an exciting time to be joining this dynamic industry and I’m really looking forward to continuing to learn more and engaging with all of our partners and stakeholders.”