Between December 2021 and February 2022, GlobalData conducted a survey of mine managers, general managers and mine-site IT managers across operating mines. This followed similar surveys in 2020 and 2018. A total of 13 technologies were investigated. • 3D printing• Autonomous vehicles• Battery-powered mining vehicles• Collision avoidance• Drones• Fatigue detection• Mine planning software*• Mine communication systems• Mine management software• Predictive maintenance for mobile equipment• Predictive maintenance for plant• Remote control vehicles• Wearables Globally, mine planning and management software, mine communicationsystems and predictive maintenance have been most widely invested inand implemented. Over half of mines had made considerable investments into, or fully implemented mine planning and management software and mine communication systems Australasian mines continue to have the highest penetration of technologies As in the previous surveys, the level of investment was highest in Australasia, with Europe and the Middle East second, Africa and Asia a close third and fourth and the Americas fifth. With Australia leading in five technologies compared with other major mining markets Examining the major mining markets, South Africa ranked top in terms of its degree of investment in collision avoidance and predictive maintenance, Canada for battery/electric vehicles and India for mine management software. Australia was top for mine planning software, communication systems and autonomous vehicles. And there has been an increase in the level of investment across most technologies over the last two years. The degree to which mines have invested in planning software and communication systems continues to rise, as it does for predictive maintenance and battery/electric-powered vehicles, although the latter is still in the early stages. Surface mines had greater levels of investment in drones, communication systems and fatigue detection … while underground mines had invested more in remote control vehicles and battery-powered vehicles, which are seeing rising investment as a means to reduce ventilation costs, amongst other benefits, in underground mining. Majors had generally invested to a greater extent than non-majors The differences between the two groups were smaller than in previous years for mine management software, battery/electric vehicles, collision avoidance and fatigue detection, though more significant for predictive maintenance and autonomous vehicles as investment from the majors has increased. To what extent have you invested in the following? 