Responsible coal participants are continuing to respond to the World Coal Association’s call to identify the alliance of Members committed to building a clean coal future through abatement and sustainable development operating principles. Fresh from informative discussions on the energy and just transitions at Mining Indaba in Cape Town, the WCA formerly welcomed two new members to the growing alliance of responsible coal participants. They are: Seriti: A major South African mining company that operates seven large-scale thermal coal mines, predominantly supplying Eskom power stations.Barloworld: A South African-headquartered international industrial processing, distribution, and services company. RELATED:Exxaro and Seriti Resources join forces to attain a low carbon future WCA CEO, Michelle Manook, says Seriti and Barloworld reflect the new vanguard of coal operatives who understand that coal must transition through an understanding of the total contribution of coal and the role of abatement technologies across the coal value chain, some of which are enshrined in the Paris Agreement and endorsed by climate science. “The energy turbulence currently reverberating around the world is a signal that abatement technology and realism are two key ingredients needed to deliver energy security, reliability and affordability. “Seriti and Barloworld understand that coal is intrinsic to economic growth, social enrichment, and a sustainable, net zero emissions future, and they are committed to shaping a clean coal future which leaves no-one behind.” Says Seriti CEO, Mike Teke: “Seriti is acutely conscious of the imperative to reduce carbon emissions, through both the cleaner burning of coal and through a just transition to clean coal and renewable energy production. “We see participation in the latter as an important further step for Seriti. We look forward to our WCA membership assisting us on that journey.” Barloworld Equipment CEO Emmy Leeka, adds: “According to the World Economic Forum, coal is said to represent about 44% of global CO2 emissions and close to 40% of global installed generation capacity. Of this, 75% is installed in Emerging Markets and Developing Economies (EMDEs), which rely on coal energy for economic development and energy assurance to communities. As such, forums as the WCA are paramount in forging collaborative change, as we continue to identify sustainable solutions, aimed at ensuring a cleaner coal Southern Africa and world at large”. Manook said coal remained an essential ingredient to economic progress through the manufacture of cement, steel, aluminium as well as a raft of other coal derivatives including wind turbines. “As urbanisation and industrialisation increases, especially across the developing and emerging markets, abated coal must both lead and support in the clean energy transition.That’s why it is imperative that innovative and progressive participants across the whole coal value chain advocate for and demonstrate inclusivity “Decarbonisation and development are partners, in a globally interconnected supply chain and a complex transition.”