First Quantum Minerals’ board of directors has approved the S3 Expansion at the Kansanshi mine and the Enterprise nickel project. “First Quantum has been working constructively with the Government of Zambia’s New Dawn administration as part of their efforts to reform the mining sector, attract investment and increase Zambia’s copper production. The approval of the projects reflects First Quantum’s increased confidence in the investment climate in Zambia,” commented CEO Tristan Pascall “The S3 Expansion and the Enterprise nickel project are a key part of our brownfield growth strategy. The Kansanshi mine has been a cornerstone asset for First Quantum for 15 years and the S3 Expansion will expand production and extend the mine life for another two decades. The low-cost, high-grade Enterprise nickel project is well placed to supply the rapidly growing electric vehicle battery sector” Work on both projects will start immediately. The company is re-commencing detailed engineering works for the S3 Expansion to determine purchase orders for key long-lead items, including the SAG mill, ball mill and in-pit crushing station. A mining contractor will be mobilized for the Enterprise nickel project in order to commence pre-stripping of the pit in June 2022. Read: The stories from Mining Indaba no-one is talking about S3 EXPANSION The S3 Expansion is expected to transition the current selective high-grade, medium-scale operation to a medium-grade, larger-scale mining operation that will be more appropriate for the higher proportion of primary, lower-grade sulphide ores at depth. As outlined in the NI 43-101 Technical Report filed in September 2020, the S3 Expansion, when completed, will comprise of a standalone 25 Mtpa processing plant with a new larger mining fleet that will increase Kansanshi’s total annual throughput to 53 Mtpa. Once the expansion is completed, copper production from Kansanshi is expected to average approximately 250 Ktpa for the remaining life of mine to 2044. A significant portion of the initial construction works for the S3 Expansion have been previously undertaken with much of the civil and structural work onsite completed. The remaining work includes completion of the remaining engineering design works, procurement and installation of equipment, electrics, controls and infrastructure. The S3 processing train will comprise of a 28-megawatt SAG mill and a 22-megawatt ball mill. The open pit mine will be expanded to increase the supply of sulphide ore from the Main Pit and extend into the South East Dome deposit. The expanded mining fleet will use similar ultra-class equipment as First Quantum’s other key mines and will benefit from new electrical loading and drilling equipment along with the extension of the current electric trolley assist infrastructure. In parallel with the expansion of the mine and processing facilities, the company plans to increase the throughput capacity of the Kansanshi smelter from 1.38 Mtpa to 1.65Mtpa of concentrate. This will enable the smelter to produce over 400 Ktpa of copper anode. First production from the S3 expansion is expected in 2025. Enterprise nickel project The Enterprise nickel sulphide deposit is located 12 km northwest of the Sentinel copper mine. As outlined in the NI 43-101 Technical Report filed in March 2020, proven and probable reserves at Enterprise total 34.7 million tonnes of ore at 0.99% nickel. The Enterprise nickel project will consist of a single, main open pit and one extension to the southwest. It will utilize the existing 4 Mtpa nickel circuit that was previously built as part of the original Sentinel processing complex. The main workstream to bring the project online will be the pre-strip of waste. The development timeline for Enterprise is expected to be approximately twelve months. At full production, Enterprise is expected to produce an average of 30 Ktpa of nickel in high-grade concentrate.