Clean metals focused mining business Ivanhoe Mines has spent the last two years bringing its world-class Kamoa-Kakula copper mining complex into production – a massive win for the company but with far bigger positive consequences for its larger asset portfolio. The delivery of such a significant project provided shareholders and the market with the confidence to take the next step in bringing its second world-class asset to account – the Platreef PGM project in South Africa. PIERRE JOUBERT, executive vice president technical services at Ivanhoe Mines, tells LAURA CORNISH. Situated just outside of the community dense population of Mokopane in Limpopo, the Platreef project development may have been moving forward slowly, steadily and away from the spotlight for the last two years, but this is quickly changing as the directive to move the project from development to mining operation is quickly gaining momentum. The sinking of Platreef’s first vertical shaft, which started in late 2015, was concluded some five years later and represents only the start to a much bigger project – which will ultimately comprise two vertical production shafts, a ventilation shaft, new concentrator, and all necessary supporting infrastructure. “Ivanhoe’s more recent focus may have been bringing Kamoa-Kakula into production, but this has been an important step in Platreef’s own journey as the market has gained confidence in our ability to deliver full-scale projects from scratch,” Joubert starts. One of the more significant milestone achievements in taking this project forward occurred in February last year, a few months short of Kamoa-Kakula’s first copper production. Ivanplats announced it had signed a non-binding term sheet with Orion Mine Finance, an international provider of production linked stream financing to base and precious metals mining companies, for a US$300 million gold, palladium, and platinum streaming facility. This was executed in conjunction with a mandate by the company to secure an additional $120 million in debt – the total balance enabling the company to fulfil all outstanding development requirements to move Platreef into production. A tier one asset now fully in the making The Platreef project comprises a massive 26 m-thick flat lying ore body that will be operated using mechanised mining methodologies. It is easily accessible, and according to Ivanplats’ original plans, has the capacity to be a 12 Mtpa PGM operation – and remain in operation for many decades to come at this rate. This would ultimately position Platreef among the largest PGM producing mines in the world, producing more than 1.1 Moz of palladium, platinum, rhodium, and gold per year. RELATED:Ivanhoe secures options to power Platreef with solar and LNG-generation2022 FS confirms Platreef’s potential to rule the roost “Situated on the less commonly frequented Northern Limb of the Bushveld Complex, geologists have defined the ore body as the Flatreef – similar in nature to the Merensky reef because it has small volumes of chrome content – but rich in copper, nickel and to a lesser extent rhodium and gold, over and above of course large quantities, in equal volumes, of platinum and palladium,” Joubert outlines. The approach to building a tier one asset of this scale has always been viewed as a phased development and in February 2022 a new independent feasibility study determined a production start-up of 700 000 tpa, estimated at $390 million, was a solid starting point upon which to build and expand the operation. The feasibility study is ultimately based on a steady state production rate of 5.2 Mtpa, as well as an accelerated ramp-up to steady state through the earlier development of Shaft 2. “We also deemed it the smart approach to fast-track this project and move it out of the starting blocks,” Joubert adds. The plan uses the project’s first shaft (Shaft 1) for initial hoisting and mine development, with 825 000 tpa total rock-hoisting capacity, of which 700 000 tpa is earmarked for ore hoisting and a further 125 000 pta for development rock during the ore extraction phase. The phased plan envisions building an initial concentrator with a capacity of 770 000 tpa for first concentrate production in mid-2024. At a rate of 700 000 tpa, Platreef will produce about 113 000 oz of platinum, palladium, rhodium and gold – with grades – generated from a higher-grade area of the ore body including 2.5 g/t platinum, 2.5 g/t palladium, 0.16 g/t rhodium and 0.41 g/t of gold. Revitalised project programme in motion There are many moving parts to the current Platreef project that will enable production start-up in mid-2024. “Shaft 1, originally planned to be a ventilation shaft, will now be the first of two production shafts. Our own team is currently equipping this shaft with the necessary facilities to hoist rock, and this is on track to be completed at the end of March,” Joubert notes. Murray & Roberts Cementation has already been appointed to take on the next vital step of this project – which includes the contract for the mine development for the initial Phase 1 mine – providing access from the 966 m-deep Shaft 1 by putting in place the underground infrastructure necessary to allow the new mine to begin production. “Our contract is for one year and it starts in April,” says Braam Bom, operations director for Murray & Roberts Cementation. “We will be working on three different levels – the 750 m, 850 m and 950 m levels. Initial lateral development will be from the 950 m level, but within a few months we will be working on all three levels. In total, we will be undertaking 2 500 m of development and expect to do 300 to 350 m a month by the end of this year. The scope includes some raiseboring of waste and ore passes. We anticipate having a workforce of approximately 355 people working on the contract. The bulk of these will be recruited locally although we will be bringing in a core of experienced workers from other areas, depending on the availability of local skills,” he continues. Murray & Roberts Cementation’s work, according to Joubert, will also include the establishment of a 5.1 m diameter ventilation shaft which will be delivered using the raiseboring technique and is scheduled to start in August or September of this year. The ventilation shaft will provide the main return airway for the Phase 1 mine and serve as a second egress. It will go down to the 950 m level. This is an entirely separate contract to the mine development contract but will be undertaken in parallel with it. Early-works surface construction for Shaft 2 began in 2017. It includes the excavation of a surface box-cut to a depth of approximately 29 m below surface and construction of the concrete hitch for the 103 m-tall concrete headgear (headframe) that will house the shaft’s permanent hoisting facilities and support the shaft collar. The Shaft 2 headframe construction, from the hitch to the collar level, recently commenced and is scheduled for completion in April 2022. The 2022 feasibility study envisions Shaft 2 equipped for hoisting in 2027, an accelerated schedule by aproximately 18 months compared to the 2020 preliminary economic assessment, coming online just over three years from first production of Phase 1. Once Shaft 2 is complete, two 2.2 Mtpa concentrator modules will be commissioned, and the initial concentrator will be ramped up to its full capacity of 770 000 tpa; increasing the steady-state production to 5.2 Mtpa. The Phase 2 expansion would result in Platreef becoming the world’s fifth largest primary platinum-group metals (PGM) mine on a palladium equivalent basis, with annual forecast production of more than 590 000 oz of palladium, rhodium, platinum, and gold, plus more than 40 Mlb of nickel and copper. At present, the full detailed engineering design for the plant has been completed and Ivanplats, together with its EPCM, is in the process of awarding the necessary equipment contracts. Ground works will start in Q2, 2022, will full[1]scale construction following thereafter to ensure the plant is ready for first production in Q3, 2024. “Ultimately, our intention is still to deliver a much larger PGM operation. Previous studies have demonstrated the resource base for future expansions up to 12 Mtpa, which would position Platreef among the very largest PGM producing mines in the world. “The next few months however is the critical focus for Platreef to ensure its nearby production date is met and this according to Joubert required working with a “well-established company with a strong track record and Murray & Roberts Cementation fitted the bill”. “We are the biggest and arguably the most experienced underground mining contractor operating in Africa. We have a long track record going back decades of delivering complex mining projects within budget and on schedule. We have a strategy of using the best technology, including digitalisation, and of embracing innovation where appropriate,” confirms Allan Widlake, new business director for Murray & Roberts Cementation.” The company currently has 17 shaft sinking, equipping and rehabilitation contracts, 19 decline shaft and mine development projects, six production mining projects, 30 support and construction projects, and six major ore handling infrastructure construction projects underway worldwide. “We also have a substantial raise drilling fleet with around 28 machines deployed in the field. Ivanhoe wants Platreef to be an ultra-modern mine so our digitalisation expertise will be important in this regard. We will be able to communicate with the operators of the mining fleet from surface and our managers will be kept continuously updated on the conditions of the machines and their performance and productivity. This data will report into our engineering maintenance management system and our production control system,” Widlake also adds. A modern mine, with modern needs Being situated within such a large-scale community requires additional responsible mining commitments, and Ivanplats will provide employment opportunities where necessary as well as the associated training. Murray & Roberts Cementation’s Bentley Park training facility near Carletonville will be used to take community members through a training programme to upskill them to the level required on the mine – and this will include high level operator skills as the Platreef mine is going to a highly mechanised bulk mining operation. “We envisage that all the employees we recruit locally and from other areas will go through Bentley Park, with their stays at the facility – which has on-site accommodation for trainees – being up to two months in duration depending on the skills requirements. “We will also be establishing a satellite training facility at the Platreef site, which will provide supplementary and refresher training, as well as training to sub-contractors.” While training is important for any mine, the mechanisation component at Platreef necessitates this to an even greater level. Murray & Roberts will for example be utilising both primary and secondary fleets that are battery powered. The primary fleet consists of MC2 drill rigs and 14 t LHDs which have been supplied to the client by Epiroc. In all there will be 11 machines in the primary fleet and 17 – from Manitou and Fermel – in the secondary fleet. Ivanplats has a vision to make the Platreef mine one of the ‘greenest’ mines in the world and obviously having emissions-free mining equipment will make a major contribution to achieving this objective. Using battery-electric machines are certainly a ‘first’ for Murray & Roberts Cementation and could well be a ‘first’ for a southern African mining project. “We will also establish a 5 MW solar system so that we can recharge the batteries on those machines using clean energy, further demonstrating our commitment to clean mining, in every regard,” Joubert enthuses.