Scandinavian-based Ethiopian gold exploration Akobo Minerals has reached an agreement with Solo Resources for the delivery of a processing plant to produce gold at the Segele Mine by 2023. Akobo Minerals the gold exploration company, with ongoing exploration and mine development in the Gambela region and Dima Woreda, Ethiopia has established itself as one of the leading gold exploration companies through more than 12 years of on-the-ground activity. With a processing capacity of 10 tons of mass per hour, the plant will be tailored to process the highly gold-rich Segele Mine ore with an Inferred and Indicated Mineral Resource Estimate of 69 kOz gold at 22.7 grams per tonne. The current dimensions will be able to process 4,000 ounces of gold per month with an all-in production cost of US$243 per ounce which may lead the company to generate a significant cash flow. Jørgen Evjen, CEO of Akobo Minerals, stated: “We have consistently delivered on all the important milestones of recent years, but this is the most important so far. With this agreement, I am confident that we will be producing gold from the Segele mine for many years to come, and that with a solid cash flow. Related: Akobo lays foundation stone as new mine development gathers pace “Jørgen Evjen further states: “The cooperation with Solo Resources has been excellent, and I look forward to starting the work with Craig and his team. They have the experience and capacity needed, and we share much of the same corporate philosophy. I am confident this will be a success for both parties” Solo Resources is a wholly owned South African company that acts as an agent for selected international companies as well as designs and supplies affordable turnkey-type plants. The company has experience in many commodities and is known for being instrumental in a total of 31 plants. “We are pleased to have been recognized and appointed as the partners for Akobo Minerals. The relationship with Akobo Minerals to date has been professional and cooperative, and we are confident the management of Akobo will deliver for their shareholders. We look forward to a mutually beneficial project,” said Craig Naude, CEO of Solo Resource. The concluded agreement is said to be a fixed-price contract that will provide protection against continued uncertainty in the world economy. Akobo admits that entering a fixed-price contract has in itself led to some cost increase in relation to the Scoping study. In addition, there are also other moderate cost increases due to higher prices for steel, fuel, and other raw materials. Nevertheless, the company says it does not expect that the total investments associated with the start-up of the mining activities will be significantly higher than estimated in the scoping study.