There was no time to lose when dewatering specialist Integrated Pump Rental took a call from a long-standing customer recently; a vital pump station had gone down and they needed help urgently. “The customer’s pump station was being refurbished, and its two pumps unexpectedly went down,” recalls Andre Strydom, rental development manager at Integrated Pump Rental. “These pumps performed a critical function for the customer, maintaining a constant flow of 200 m3/h per pump – over a one kilometre distance.” What was required was an urgent water bypass solution to take over this duty while the in-situ pumps were attended to, and the pump station refurbishment went ahead. Within a day of the customer’s call, the nature of the application had been assessed and the quotation sent out. This was quickly followed up with the despatch of Integrated Pump Rental’s dewatering solution to site, where its pumps were rapidly commissioned. “Having taken the call on day one, we had the pumps selected, delivered, commissioned and operational by day two,” says Strydom. The solution included the deployment of two diesel driven Allight Sykes high head dewatering pump sets, providing bypass water lines. These rental pump sets operated 24 hours per day to maintain the required flow rate through these pipelines. “One of our primary advantages is that we can react with speed to our customers’ emergency dewatering situations,” he says. “This is because we operate a large and varied fleet of diesel driven dewatering pump sets, which are capable of dealing with different sizes of applications – each with their own operational requirements and site conditions.” He also highlighted the team’s depth of knowledge in dealing with dewatering applications and their technical expertise. This allows them to apply expert judgement in identifying the most appropriate dewatering solution. In this recent application, the two high head dewatering rental pumps remained on site until the pump station was completed and commissioned. Allight Sykes dewatering pumps, such as those selected for this application, are well known for their performance, efficiency and reliability. Over the years, Integrated Pump Rental has built a strong reputation for its 24/7 service to industry, delivered for 365 days of the year. Irrespective of the dewatering application, the company can offer an appropriate solution, he says. “The team prides itself on being able to respond to requests from customers at short notice,” says Strydom. “We understand that most requests for dewatering pump rentals are urgent, so they demand a rapid response with a solution that matches the needs of the job.”