Resolute Mining has formally appointed Terry Holohan as Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and Managing Director. The appointment follows the resignation of now former MD, and CEO. Stuart Gale. Holohan has formally taken over as CEO while Gale will leave the company to pursue an opportunity in the Australia-focused resources sector. While Gale ceases to be a director of the Company, in accordance with Resolute’s constitution, he will continue to work during his contractual notice period to the extent required by the Board to ensure a smooth transition. Holohan is an experienced mining sector executive with more than 40 years in the industry, including seven, years of experience as CEO for two mining companies. Thirty of those years have been spent working in Africa with a range of precious and base metals mining projects. Holohan was appointed as COO in May 2021 and since then has been responsible for all aspects of the Company’s operations and projects. He has been instrumental in resetting the operations at the Company’s flagship Syama mine in Mali, where operations are progressing well and in line with expectations following the recently planned sulphide plant shutdown. Resolute Mining Limited (ASX/LSE: RSG) announces strong #quarterly report for March 2022.   #mali #senegal #africamining #resolutemining #quarterlyreport #asx #exploration #lse #rsg pic.twitter.com/Qu72yYVlFu “This is an important period for Resolute and I look forward to working with the Board to build on the operational improvements we have been making to take the company forward. There is more work to be done here and my priority as CEO will be to ensure the company is best positioned to achieve this, and that we have the right people, systems, and procedures in place to do so.” said Resolute’s new CEO Terry Holohan. Acknowledging the former CEO, Resolute Chairman, Martin Botha said: “I would like to thank Stuart for his leadership and commitment during a challenging period for the Company – both in terms of managing the impact of COVID-19 on our business and people, but also in focusing on operational improvement and productivity. We wish him all the best in his new venture.”