Ironveld has signed Heads of Terms to acquire a full share capital of Ferrochrome Furnaces (FCF) which will provide the company with an existing smelting facility and the opportunity to commence mining and processing. FCF, which is in Business Rescue, owns a mothballed smelter complex in Rustenburg, South Africa, which is approximately 400 kilometers from Ironveld’s Bushveld mining project. “The acquisition of the smelter is a major development and milestone for the Company. We have a refurbishment plan ready to execute, which we estimate will take nine months, and thereafter we anticipate first sales within 12 months of the Acquisition. “Our existing offtake contracts and marketing agreements, as well as all the necessary environmental and operational permits that are already in place, provide us with the ability to accelerate the Company’s pathway to production and cash flow far more quickly and for less cost than if we were to construct a new smelter,” said Martin Eales, Chief Executive Officer of Ironveld. The complex consists of four 2.5 MW tilting EAF furnaces and four convertors with ladles, cranes, and associated buildings and equipment. Ironveld, in conjunction with technical experts, says it has carried out due diligence on FCF over the past eight months, costing R 40 – 65 million. This has included a detailed costing for the refurbishment of the facility and quotations for the necessary equipment and upgrades. The fourth EAF will be held in reserve for future refurbishment, with the potential of increasing total processing capacity or outsourcing. Kickstarting with ESG The smelter complex is currently supplied with electricity from the national grid. The iron company has however signed a Letter of Intent with Enernet Global Inc. to build, own, operate and maintain a hybrid power plant using renewable energy which will provide Ironveld with security of power supply on a Capex-free basis. “Our final products; high purity iron, vanadium in slag, and titanium in slag, are required for the green economy and will therefore supply growing markets. End products include vanadium redox and other batteries and 3D printing in industries such as transport and renewable energy. How much did it cost? Ironveld has agreed with the Business Rescue Practitioners, Tayfin Forensic and Investigative Auditors, to acquire the share capital of FCF for a nominal fee and to purchase outstanding debt from the sole creditor. The purchase price of the share capital is R980 and in addition, Ironveld has agreed to purchase a total of R115 million of outstanding debt from the sole creditor, payable as R15 million upon completion and R100 million over 10 years based on a share of profits from the smelter facility capped at 13.5% per annum. Ironveld made clear its intention to use mining contractors on site to minimise capital expenditure and will also use community-based transportation companies to transport ore from the mine to the smelter complex. The transaction is subject to contract and other standard conditions precedent and the parties have agreed to a three-month Exclusivity Period for completion. “I look forward to keeping shareholders updated on the Acquisition and as we come closer to breaking ground,” concluded Eales.