“I look after the mine supervisors and provide them with guidance about what to do in the pit, while also ensuring they are following the safety regulations of the mine. By working together, we can ensure that we are working according to the mine plan,” explains Nkosinathi Ngwenya (47), who is a Day Shift Foreman at Khanye Colliery, in Bronkhorstspruit, Gauteng. Nkosinathi, a holder of a blasting certificate, has been with the mine since April 2021. He has many years of experience in the mining industry. This wealth of knowledge aids Nkosinathi in managing mining personnel in the day-to-day performance of their designated tasks.  Additionally, he is responsible for ensuring the discipline of all persons under his charge and undertaking daily on-the-job coaching. Providing and maintaining a working environment that is safe and without undue risk to the health of mine staff within his area of responsibility is equally important. Nkosinathi makes use of a risk control matrix to assess and eliminate or reduce risks. “I consider an employee’s training and capability, knowledge and skill in respect of health and safety before allowing them to continue with their work or before assigning specific or specialized tasks to them,” he points out. Furthermore, he assists in the control over the proper safe operation and running of machinery and equipment in their area of responsibility. “We work together to ensure we meet 240 000 ton a month of run of mine coal target. When there are challenges in the pit area it is my responsibility to make sure I provide operators with guidance. It’s not good enough just to say that something is being done wrong, I have to explain to them how to get it done correctly,” Nkosinathi explains. There are times when Nkosinathi must get into a mining machine himself so he can show the operators how they should be operating the machines correctly. “I do this so that the supervisor will see for themselves how it should be done and won’t have a problem getting the operators to do it correctly next time,” he states, Nkosinathi stresses that everything must run smoothly from an operational productivity and safety point of view. “The two go hand in hand because if there’s an error on the one it could cause injury or even fatality on the other. Our goal is to ensure people are working safely and productively. if I see people working according to those guidelines and as I’ve instructed them to do so, it brings me a great deal of happiness.”