TSX-listed Ivanhoe Mines’ Phase 3 expansion at its Kamoa-Kakula Copper Mining Complex in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC will position Kamoa Copper as the world’s third-largest copper mining complex and the largest copper mining complex on the African continent. Kamoa-Kakula is expected to increase production to approximately 600 000 tonnes copper by Q4 2024. Phase 3 will consist of two new underground mines known as Kamoa 1 and Kamoa 2, as well as the initial decline development at Kakula West. A new, 5 Mtpa concentrator plant will be established adjacent to the two new mines at Kamoa. Upon commencement of Phase 3 production, Kamoa Copper will have a total processing capacity of greater than 14 Mtpa. The existing Phase 1 and 2 concentrators will be de-bottlenecked and operating at a combined throughput of 9.2 million tonnes of ore per year by the second quarter of 2023, which is expected to increase Kamoa-Kakula’s annual copper production to more than 450 000 tonnes. The associated power and surface infrastructure are being designed to support Phase 3, as well as future expansions. Phase 3 also includes a direct-to-blister flash smelter that will incorporate leading-edge technology supplied by Metso Outotec of Espoo, Finland, with a nameplate capacity of 500 000 tpa of approximately 99% pure blister copper. It is projected to be one of the largest, single-line copper flash smelters in the world, and the largest in Africa. Read more about Kamoa-Kakula Expansion benefits all stakeholders Kamoa-Kakula’s Phase 3 expansion will also be powered by clean, green hydroelectricity. Kamoa Copper’s Inga II partnership is expected to generate an additional 178 MW of renewable hydropower for the DRC, providing the Kamoa-Kakula Copper Mining Complex and associated smelter with sustainable electricity for Phase 3 and future expansions, while also benefitting local communities. Ivanhoe Mines’s co-Chair Robert Friedland stated, “Together with our joint-venture partner, Zijin Mining, we are resolved to expedite future expansion phases at Kamoa-Kakula to meet rapidly rising copper demand, create profitable growth for our shareholders, and long-lasting economic and social benefits for the Congolese nation and people. “The Kamoa Copper team has delivered fantastic results during construction and ramp-up of Phase 1 and Phase 2, and we’re confident that record of success will continue as we expand Kamoa-Kakula into one of the world’s largest producers of copper metal.”