1. Main Stage Seating and Overflow Seating Due to Covid-19 social distancing regulations, there is limited seating in the main stage theatre. General seating is on a first come first-served basis. On Monday 9 and Tuesday 10 May, until 1pm, Main Stage content will be live streamed in Auditorium 1 where overflow seating is provided. 2. Covid Vaccination and PCR Test Requirements All attendees are required to provide EITHER proof of full vaccination OR a valid (within 72 hours) negative PCR test to collect their badge and gain entry to the event. There will be a walk-in testing centre, operated by Callouts, located on the ground floor of CTICC 2, opening times as follow: Monday 9 May – 07:00 to 17:00 Tuesday 10 May – 07:30 to 17:00 Wednesday 11 May – 07:30 to 17:00 Thursday 12 May – 07:30 to 14:00 The testing centre will be able to provide onsite PCR testing and any testing requirements you may have for your journey home too. Please click here to book to avoid the queues. 3. Mask Wearing Requirement Face masks, covering both the mouth and nose, must be always worn inside the event. Look at the Safe and Secure Guidelines. 4. Badge Collection Instructions We are extending registration hours on Saturday 7 and Sunday 8 May to reduce wait times, caused by the additional COVID-19 checks required to collect your badge. We encourage you to collect your badge as early as possible, as we expect there will be queues. All delegates must collect their own badge and you cannot collect another person’s badge. All fees must be paid in full before a badge is printed and entrance to the event is permitted.  Payment is accepted onsite with a debit/credit card. No cash payments can be accepted onsite. General Counsel and Young Leaders can only collect badges Thursday 12 May. 5. Increased Security Checks and Processes When entering the CTICC, all delegates will be required to go through full airport style security including metal detectors and x-ray machines. We encourage you to only bring essential items and please do not bring luggage to the event.