The Elphinstone range of WR810 underground support vehicles is designed to thrive in the harshest underground hard rock mining environments. Choosing the right support vehicle for an underground mining operation can significantly increase the productivity of the production fleet and reduce operational costs. The WR810 Delivery adds another support application to Elphinstone’s expanding underground support fleet. The WR810 is a highly configurable, 10-tonne nominal base platform, comprising a scissor lift, agitator (6m3), fuel and lube truck, and water cannon. According to Elphinstone’s Sales and Support Representative for Southern Africa, Kyle Allen, the WR810 model range is growing. “We are expanding the range of applications to meet the underground support equipment requirements of our customers,” Allen says. With a payload of 11,130 kilograms, the WR810 Delivery ensures parts, components, equipment, and maintenance personnel are transported safely and securely throughout the mine. Safe and effective load handling The fully integrated Hiab X-HiDuo 092 ‘optimal performance’ loader crane features a rated lifting capacity of 8.8 tonne metre (TM) and a 7.7-metre outreach, providing a reliable solution for day-to-day heavy lifting. “Operated by manual lever control or via the wireless joystick remote, the operator can manoeuvre loads from a distance with built-in intelligence and automatic speed control (ASC) for safe and effective load handling,” Allen says. Safety features include emergency crane stops located on the manual control station and wireless joystick remote. Stabiliser legs with levelling sensors provide a safe foundation with easy pack up for safe transit. The checker plate deck features thoughtfully positioned tie-down points and three-point access with high visibility green handrails and ladders on both sides. Tier 3 and Tier 4 Final engine arrangements The C7.1 ACERT Tier 4 Final engine arrangement is optional, adhering to EU Stage V exhaust emission standards. The engine arrangement offers a dual horsepower configuration set at 151 kilowatts (202 horsepower) for a higher performance rating. The lower reduced ventilation rating at 129 kilowatts (173 horsepower) is possible through a simple software change performed by a Caterpillar dealer. The C7.1 ACERT Tier 3 engine arrangement rated at 168 kilowatts (225 horsepower) is the standard option for less stringent emission regulations. Matched to the engine is a Cat five-speed (three-speed reverse) transmission fitted with a lock-up torque converter. Downtime during service and maintenance is reduced through some clever engineering and design features. Quick change air filters and  500-hour oil service intervals also reduce downtime and keep machines in operation for longer for greater productivity. The on-board warning & protection system continuously checks all critical machine functions for early warning and fast fault finding, recorded for analysis. Safety is always a priority at Elphinstone Safety is one of the most important aspects of any piece of machinery employed in the mining world. “The majority of key safety items on the WR810 are mandatory base machine options,” Allen says. Safety features include firewalls and heatshields, machine interlocks, centralised isolation points (engine disconnect switch, starter isolation switch, jump-start receptacle and fire system activation, if fitted). Optional features include an integrated fire suppression system and metallic fuel water separators made from a non-flammable material. Emergency stops are fitted as standard inside the cabin, at ground level on the front left-hand side of the machine and located near the access ladders on the left and right hand side of the deck. Operator station designed for comfort with exceptional visibility Integrated into the WR810 operator station is a ROPS (roll-over protective structure) ISO 3471:2008 and FOPS (falling object protective structure) ISO 3449:2005 that offers protection to the operator. The operator station is designed to seat three people in comfort with exceptional visibility. This is ideal for training purposes, and allows the complete crew to travel collectively rather than deploying an additional light vehicle for personnel transport. The driver’s seat is a ‘T’ seat with air suspension, and the crew seats are a standard ‘T’ seat or optional ‘T’ seat with air suspension. Ergonomically designed machine controls are located for the operator to control the machine functions with minimal effort. The result is greater concentration on vehicle operation, with reduced operator fatigue. Oscillating hitch and articulation The oscillating hitch provides superior operator comfort, four-wheel ground contact and reduced wear on the hitch and steering components. Includes a heavy duty 600mm (1ft 11in) deep frame section through oscillating hitch area with +/- 42.5° steering articulation and +/- 10° oscillation. “The WR810’s oscillating platform prevents the transfer of rough conditions from the rear frame into the front frame. The benefit is a far superior ride by allowing the rear frame to oscillate,” Allen says. Elphinstone looks to the future Having invested a lot of resources into product development, Elphinstone has its eyes set on battery electric next. “We’ve got the Tier 3 and Tier 4 engine – the next step is to add battery electric on the WR810 model,” Global Sales and Marketing Manager, Tim Mitchell. “We’ve commenced the project; we have a project team focused on that, and we’re also developing other products in parallel and taking customer feedback. “If we can’t add value to our customers’ business with our product then we might as well close our doors. Because that’s our ultimate aim,” Mitchell says. The battery electric products are still in the development phase, but Elphinstone plans to have them commercially available in 2024. South African representative Kyle Allen and Global Sales and Marketing Manager, Tim Mitchell, will be attending African Mining Indaba and welcome you to visit stand 732. All Elphinstone products are available via the Global Cat Dealer Network.